While some critics can argue with Dan Brown's research and reasoning on certain historical points, one thing these Da Vinci "debunking" presentations will never be able to refute is this: the downplaying of the feminine role in western civilization and Christianity, primarily by the Catholic Church, and the fact that the Church still considered Mary Magdalene a common prostitute until just a few short years ago: 1969. Nor is it possible to refute the recent polymorphously perverse scandals that have rocked the Church after centuries of suppression and may have everything to do with the doctrinal distortions that Dan Brown has brought out in the open for serious review. This institution is in trouble because it is seriously out of balance with itself and has cut off its spiritual nose to despite its face by downplaying or denigrating the role of women as sacred beings and bearers of the Light, when their healthy presence is needed more than ever as a corrective to some of these abuses and scandals. Dan Brown has done the world a great service by showing how the feminine role in the divine was written out 2000 years ago, with help from Peter whose misogynistic views of women are plainly evident in the scriptures even today and are still, quite frankly, shocking and debasing. Sorry, but upon this "Rock" of male dominancy was built the Church.

Thank you again, Dan Brown, by bringing these matters into the light of day so people can know more of their authentic history or at least do their own research to make up their own minds about which spiritual path is best for them and which ones were built on two millenniums worth of manipulations, obscurations and lies. These obscurations and lies happened through the efforts of a group of petty, insecure and misguided men down through the centuries to ensure their dominance and control over the masses, and they found a way to dominate not only the minds of the masses but their vast material resources, worth trillions, through guilt, control and other hidden but consistent abuses of power. And those of orthodox faith who continue to blindly support such hypocritical institutions have a lot more to answer for than any twenty Dan Browns put together. People are angry and they are angry at the failure of religion to live up to its own standards of behavior and for distorting what may have been Jesus' actual relationship with the women in his life--or were the disciples just supposed to be members of a exclusive Men's Club with Jesus as head and women as a species relegated to second class citizenship? To answer these questions, some of you will finally have to turn to your own heart and mind for a change instead of some literal interpretation of the truth, because not everything of the light is found in scriptures or on the printed page, especially after the scriptures have been selectively riddled with scissors for reasons of self-interest or from spiritual corruption. The next thing people should ask for is to have the vaults of the Vatican thrown open for public view. Lord only knows what plunder they contain
