Gene Hackman is Jedidiah Tucker Ward, an aging yet tireless litigant for the public good, enemy of evil corporate type and the bane of overpaid attorneys everywhere.  On the other side of this gap of good and evil is Maggie Ward, Jed's headstrong daughter.  Between them is a products liability lawsuit involving car lights that kill people.  The premise suggests the ending - Jed will win the day, but not before his daughter has been transformed into a noble attorney.  Jed will fight the good fight (which will require supreme grandstanding) while Maggie learns just how amoral her side really is.

What robs this courtroom thriller is what's missing in virtually every courtroom thriller - a case that could go either way, an actual case in controversy.  Maybe because of the amount of preemptive litigation required just to produce a major motion picture, Hollywood is simply too beholden to lawyers to make a truly biting film about them.  Instead of a compelling case, we have one that's ready for our verdict as soon as we've seen the suits worn by either side or their offices.  The case in "Class Action" is one you can typify as "David & Goliath", which is to say that the end has been fated to be won by the little guy by a higher power.  There's no way that we're going to see a case won (even by dishonest means) by Donald Moffat's hired band of Harvard-trained professional liars, and there's no way anybody in the audience is going to buy their arguments.  Maggie's bosses are so transparently bad, that not only do they screw up, but even their explanations are patently evil  Even so, the film stacks the deck against them by cynically attributing to them as evil what are basic facts of life for lawsuits of this kind - namely that products liability plaintiffs will make overbroad requests for discovery, and defendants respond in kind by deluging the other side with documents responsive to the request but otherwise valueless.  For a thriller about high-paid lawyers, "Class Action" has all the legal acumen of high-school mock-trial, with fewer suprises
