I just watched this movie version of the classic childrens' book with my wife.  Here are my gut impressions:

First, very little is true to the book.  That's not really a gut impression.  That's the impression I got hearing my wife say "That's not in the book...that's not in the book..."

Actually this movie is more like a computer animation demo than a vehicle for story telling.  It makes for beautiful stills and pictures, and those made me want to see the movie.   

I expected a heart warming Christmas story, and what I got was about an hour of frantic scenes of out-of-control railroad and other technology animated like never before with just enough pauses betwen them to remind me why I'm watching.  You get to see...
 
A kid chasing a ticket through a train,
 
A kid chasing a ticket over the roof of a train,
 
A ticket making its way through the forest -- Rube Goldberg style -- back to the train,

(Forty minutes into this movie and one girl's train ticket is the star of the show!)

OK, the ticket sub plot is resolved and we have...

A train sliding out of control on the ice,

A train trying to outrun cracks on the ice,

A train going full throttle out of control and racing up and down mountain valleys like a roller coaster (fans of the "coaster tycoon" series of computer games will feel right at home) until finally it arrives at the North Pole. 

Then, the train car with the central character kids gets detached so we have...

A train car running out of control through Santa's village,

Kids getting lost in the Christmas present manufacturing plant and falling through the chutes and machinery of the factory, and then...

Kids getting lost in a bag of presents that is taken by a flying machine to Santa's sled launching pad where the star at the top of the tree is dislodged and nearly impales an innocent elf.  Ho ho ho.

At least let me have a joystick and a couple of buttons so I can help these kids out!  It's like a computer animated train wreck in fast motion.  You know it's awful but you can't look away!  

And, you'd better think twice before letting any very young children see this.  It could be very frightening on a big screen with the volume turned up.  My wife and I were going to watch it with our three and six year old sons, and we were very glad that we didn't.

So, what could have been a classic, enduring, and endearing compliment to a classic childrens' Christmas story is little more than a great line for some computer animator to have on his or her resume.  Two thirds of this movie is devoted to stuff that doesn't advance the story or develop the characters one bit.  Whatever a "character driven" story is, this is the opposite.  Never have I seen so many rendered pixels doing so much and accomplishing so little.

I'd rather set up my old American Flyer electric trains and let them run around the tree while I read the book to my kids. 

  



