There are some good things about this film -- it gives audiences an idea of how insidious the Nazi propaganda machine was, for one thing. It also shows the main character, Antoine Moreau, a (fictional) famous French mime, having his eyes opened to the reality of the Nazis' 'final solution' to the 'Jewish problem'. Brought to a Czech town that has been 'given to the Jews' by the Nazis in order to stage a performance that will be seen by the Swiss Red Cross delegation, hopefully persuading them that the Germans are not as monstrous as they have been portrayed, Moreau changes his original idea for the performance, hoping to get a 'silent' message to the Red Cross that will let them know the true fate of Jews (and other 'undesirables') at the hands of the Nazis.  

I'll briefly mention a couple of less-than-positive observations, and then get into my main problem with the film.  The production values reminded me a bit of a made-for-TV movie -- and from time to time it seemed that the sound was a little out of sync with the picture. The image quality on the DVD could have been much better as well.  Also, the Shanachie DVD release is version of the film that has been dubbed with English.  This is, in the case of this film, not very well-done.  The cabaret singer, for instance, comes across as completely unbelievable in that her voice doesn't match her face or ethnicity in the least.  Everyone in the film winds up with an English accent, which detracts from any authenticity that might have been retained using subtitles instead of clumsy dubbing.

Another reviewer below brought up the dubbing problem as it apples to one of one of the children, Stella (portrayed by Linda Jablonska).  Her voice does not sound at all like that of a little girl. She develops a bit of a crush on Antoine, which in itself seems like a pretty natural occurrence under the circumstances -- here is a famous artist who has come to the village to stage a show, with her as one of the leads, who is kind and supportive and friendly to her, who listens to her ideas and feelings with attention and respect.

The problem I had was with one scene in particular.  Stella has been caught on the streets after curfew and chased by police.  She bites one of them and manages to elude them by squeezing through a break in a fence.  In the process of getting away, she gets muddy, scrapes herself bloody in a few places, and tears her clothing.  She goes to Moreau's hotel and climbs to the ledge outside his room and taps on the window.  When he opens it, he is shocked at her condition, lets her into the room, and begins to try to clean her cuts and scrapes, asking what had happened.  He then draws a bath for her, so she can wash herself.  As Moreau sits down, still in a bit of a daze over what has happened to her, she steps into the bath.  Just before she pulls her dress over her head, she says to him, `No looking.'  He shakes his head to bring himself out of his daze and says `Of course', then repairs to the adjoining bedroom, where he lies down on the bed to have a smoke, allowing her to conduct her bath in privacy.  A moment later, he hears a noise and looks up to see Stella emerge from the bathroom, completely naked, in a full-frontal nude shot.  Moreau gets up from the bed and lifts the covers, suggesting that she warm herself.  She climbs into the bed; he covers her up, and steps away to the other side of the room.  There is nothing about the scene that implies that anything improper occurred.  He has simply offered her care and comfort and sympathy. 

This shot only lasts a few seconds, but I feel that, regardless of the director's reasoning for shooting it in the first place, it could have been left out.  If the point was to show that Moreau has either had morals all along, or that he has acquired them, it could have been demonstrated in a variety of other ways.

Earlier in the film, Stella had witnessed one of her caregivers, semi-nude, in Moreau's hotel room (Stella saw this from outside).  Given her `schoolgirl crush' on Moreau, it seemed natural for her to become upset over this.  As a result, however, the scene after the bath comes across as a young girl inappropriately mimicking adult sexual behaviour.  This, combined with the `adult' voice dubbed over Stella's, makes the scene even more disquieting.

There are some viewers who might argue that, in Europe, `standards' involving nudity and sexuality are not as reactionary as those in the US.  In many instances, I would wholeheartedly agree with them.  There is much hypocrisy in the dynamics of American culture and moral values, and not a little bit of neurosis.  However, the sexual objectification of children is something about which I feel very strongly...and I think the scene in question in this film amounts to exactly that.  Don't get me wrong -- I'm not so prudish that I turn away from even full-frontal nudity in a film, if it's not gratuitous and it's an integral part of the storyline...but here, it involves a prepubescent girl, and could have easily been left out.  It worries me bit that this point has not been made by other reviewers.  Have we become so numbed in respect to nudity in films that many can't recognize an instance where it's not only unnecessary, but potentially harmful? 

I'm glad I've seen the film -- and I'd recommend it with a bit of praise and some strong reservations, as noted above. With all of the ridiculous claims from some quarters that the Holocaust never happened, I think it's vitally important for films on the subject to be made and seen. 

The Czech film ALL MY LOVED ONES is an excellent film about this horrible time that has not gotten the attention it deserves -- seek it out.

n.b. -- This is the second time I have posted this exact review.  I noticed today (6 April 2006) that it has, for some reason, been removed from the site.  I've re-read what I've written, and I don't see anything objectionable or offensive.  The issues I have with the film are discussed straightforwardly.  If anyone objects to anything I've written here, I'd like to know what it is. 
