The flight into New York had been a long one; but I was gently revived when Kirsten Dunst met me at the airport.  She was to be my escort that night at the Lincoln Center where the President would present me the Distinguished Writer's Cross-the highest award this nation can bestow on an author.  I quickly slipped my only suitcase in the backseat and sat next to her as she drove her Mercedes S class sedan to the Waldorf Astoria downtown.

"I have to admit that I didn't you who you were until I read STARLESS GRASSLANDS.  I don't mean to embarrass you; but that book changed my life."

I tried to be polite and gracious toward the compliment.  For the remainder of the trip we had a nice conversation while I approved the fluid motion of her hands and legs as she maneuvered the controls of the automobile.  I very much approved of her legs.

As I departed the car, Kirsten leaned toward the open door to catch my eyes.

"Don't forget.  I'll be by at seven so we can go to the ceremony together.  Please be ready."

I expressed gratitude for her generosity and promised to be waiting for her seven sharp.  The hotel staff greeted me and soon I entered the elevator for a quiet ride to the eighty sixth floor.  As I entered the suite, the steward took my request to have my suit blushed, prepared and returned in a few hours.

Finally, a bit of peace.  I poured a small measure of whiskey into a chilled tumbler and then walked over to the large window looking out over the city below.  For a few moments I contemplated the remarks I was to make at this evening's formal ceremonies, then I heard the hushed movement of stocking feet behind me across the room.  

I turned around and out of the bedroom to my left in walked Sandy Bullock dressed in a black sheer see through cat suit.

"Well, Crabby, aren't you glad to see me?"

Before I could recover from my surprise another set of feet wisped across the floor from the sitting room on the right.  It was Jennifer Aniston dressed in the same black sheet cat suit.

"Sweetheart, don't look at her.  Come here to me."

"Get out!" screamed Sandy.  

"No, you get out.  It's not fair.  I left Brad for him so I get him!"

The two of them stood in angry silence staring at each other for a tense moment.  Then Sandy leapt at Jennifer and instantly they were in a bitter fight hissing and scratching each other.  It was a ferocious sight as pulled hair, shrieks of pain, and nylon tearing could be heard.  Then almost a quickly as it began, the fighting pair disappeared into the sitting room.  Several sharp punches were heard then a definite thump as a body fell to the floor.  

Sandy marched back into the room victorious.  I ran to the door of the sitting room only to see Jennifer laid out on the floor out cold, spread eagle and naked.  Before I could think of what to do Sandy tapped me on my shoulder.  I turned around and there Sandy stood.  A little worse for wear.  Trying to catch her breath.  Nude with her torn cat suit draped across her feet.

"Forget her.  She won't bother us now."

Sandy brushed the stray hairs out of her face, smiled and stepped out of her nylon costume.  She posed standing and anticipating my admiration.  

"Now I'm all sweaty and warm.  I need a shower."  Sandy turned her lithe body and walked into the bedroom and into the bathroom beyond.

I turned around and wondered what I should do for poor Jennifer still laying unconscious on the floor.  Then I heard Sandy calling.

"Crabby, why don't you come and help me?  You could soap up my......"


OOPS!!!!  Sorry!!!  Err...just a little fantasy of mine.  I meant to honestly review this movie but my more realistic nature took over.  I swear my pitiful fantasy is actually much better than the story told here.  You see, the cover of this DVD displays Ms. Bullock prominently with her name in big font letters.  But in truth this movie focuses on Tate Donovan as the main character and only on Ms. Bullock as his unlikely love interest.

As much as I "love" Sandra Bullock, I have to admit her filmography has not been kind to her.  Her best films have been WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING, WRESTLING ERNEST HEMINGWAY and the much-unappreciated HOPE FLOATS.  Unfortunately for each of these gems are several terrible movies like FIRE ON THE AMAZON, HANGMAN, SPEED 2 and this movie.

The plot revolves around two "losers in love" who are unappealing both in looks and personality.  Donovan comes across a love potion from a gypsy woman (an unrecognizable Anne Bancroft) and soon both Donovan and Bullock have the most desirable members of the opposite sex at their feet.  All goes well until others find out their secret and Donovan and Bullock discover that their true love is actually between each other.

The story is predictable and unfortunately not very funny or all that sweet.  Chances are you can find a copy of this DVD fairly cheap and it is not a bad way to kill some time while you're waiting for your own boyfriend or girlfriend to get off work-or your friends to wake up from their naps-so you can really do something worth wild.
