We expose our babies/toddlers to a wide variety of cultural sources, in several languages.  Therefore, having seen similar products it seemed logical to purchase this one, given it is touted as a multilingual introduction to their environment (our little ones are trilingual: English, Spanish and ASL, and they ignore us in all them!).  Big mistake.  The video not only reinforces but solidifies the sexist portrayal of love so prevalent in other Baby Einstein (BE) items.  In earlier BE products one could see only female hands manipulating objects as they presented them on screen.  Male hands were never present.  This video goes many steps furhter by featuring male figures only in the background, or at best, an elderly man briefly interacting with a child.  Everywhere else you see multiple females lovingly playing, caring or otherwise being nurturing to children.  Males are only seen (with the exception of a black couple in bed while kids jump to play with them) in a distant background in entirely detached attitudes, or at least distant, dry and quiet poses, such as talking with a much older (male) child.  It is as if they are shown there as part of the domestic landscape, however as movable and inane as potted plants, whom you can move and place at will.  I felt insulted by this condescending and disqualifying view of male love and nurturing abilities.

Asides, when you go into the Spanish version, it is (for a professionally produced video) riddled with mistakes.  Three objects are mislabeled.  In the first, when a cup - the plastic or paper tall type , not the coffee and saucer version, it is called "la taza", when in reality it should be "el vaso", as unlike English, where it is interchangeable "vaso" is  the specific word for that item.  The second - much worse instance, still in the kitchen was to introduce a bowl.  There, the clueless scripter translated it as "el bol", a clear and poor corruption of the English word into a one commonly used in Spanglish, instead of calling it "tazo'n", as its correct name is.  The last one I saw was in the yard (I'm suprised they didn't call it la yarda!: "Looka mami! get la troca and go a la marketa a buy a boncha de carrotas!").  This time they called an obvious swing (two ropes and a seat in between) "la hamaca", when in reality hamaca means hammock.  Fortunately, we are native speakers amnd are abel to catch these pitfalls, but many people relies upon these products to teach their kids other languages.  

In sum I was discusted with the whole thing.   








