Theres only one word to describe this ppv and thats S**T, WHY did they have to ruin 2 matches(main events) what could have saved this event! This Features 4 Titles On the line and if you buy the DVD you also get some extras.

Match 1 
World Tag Team Titles - Fatal Fourway
Chris Jericho and Christian(c, i call them Y2C) vs Lance Storm and William Regal vs Dudley Boyz vs Booker T and Goldust!
This match made every body think the PPV was gonna be great(even though it was'nt) but a great opener and the winners of this match deserved the titles! 7.5/10

Match 2
Edge vs A-train
Short match but had some good highspots, but the end turned the whole damn match around when it ended in DQ! 6/10

Match 3
Eddie Gurrero(tag team champion) vs Chris Benoit
Easily the match of the night and there were'nt any titles on the line and if you liked this you should watch there match at Vengeance 2003! 8.8/10

Match 4
Kane vs Batista(w/ ric flair)
This is where everything changes this match was a squash but had some good moves good win for batista! 5.5/10

Match 5
TRIPLE THREAT MATCH - WOMENS CHAMPIONSHIP
Trish Stratus vs Jacqueline vs Victoria(c)
We've got jezabell(victoria)whos absessed with Trish and jackie was added in since she beat jezabell. jezabell wins via hitting trish with the title and covering jackie! 5.5/10

Match 6
SINGLE MATCH - WWE CHAMPIONSHIP
The Big Show(c) vs Kurt Angle
Not bad but just needed either more time or better action, it was 
cool seeing brock F5ING Big show and Kurt Angle being new champion! 7.5/10

                          Main Event
Match 7 
2 OUT OF 3 FALLS MATCH - WORLD HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP
1st Fall - Street Fight- 8/10
2nd Fall - Cage Match- 6/10
3rd Fall - Ladder Match 2/10
Triple H(w/ ric flair) vs Shawn Michaels(C)
This was something like the second 2 out of 3 falls stipulation match and was a main event outcome: pathetic! First fall was a bit too long but was really good like there match at Summerslam!
Second fall had crashing tables and that was it, that was cool but it was much of a match HBK kicked HHH ass easily! Third fall was'nt much and this match could have saved this event! 7.9/10

Overall Armageddon 2002 Had some good matches escpecially Benoit vs Eddie the 2 main event could have been much better though!
OVERALL: 6.7/10

DVD Extras:

- 5 Exclusive Interviews
- Extra Match: Fatal Four-Way Elimination Match to determine the Number 1
  Contender (from Smackdown - 5th December 2002
