"The Door In The Floor" is difficult to like, even, (or perhaps especially), if you're a fan of John Irving's book, "A Widow For One Year," which was the source of this film. 

The movie is dark, depressing, & slow-moving. It also showcases the least likable characters from the book. To make matters worse, it focuses only on the first third of the novel's story, which leaves us with an entire movie about an alienated, (& alienating), couple's suffering. The film is completely devoid of the novel's interesting & more enjoyable journey through this tragic period of a family's life & into the more fulfilling chapters in the lives of characters who aren't well developed in the film, but who are central to the book's satisfying end to an otherwise hopelessly sad story! 

This may give you an idea why the film wasn't very successful with audiences. 

The theme is of deep personal loss and the devastating effects it can have on people. Unfortunately, the film version of the story concentrates almost entirely on the agony experienced by the parents, played by Jeff Bridges & Kim Basinger, in the aftermath of the accidental death of their two teenage sons. It wallows in the empty chasm that's grown between them & delves into the sad, meaningless, & even cruel love affairs they each engage in, in vain attempts to ease their sorrows & escape the pain of the love lost between them & of course, the greatest loss, the loss of their sons. The film also highlights the rather ugly way this couple inflicts damage upon the people they use for this purpose. 

And finally, we witness the pain of their very young daughter, who was born out of yet more of the parent's attempts to fill their empty, sad lives, and we're treated to a view of her pitiful childhood, growing up with parents who truly "aren't there." 

The greatest mystery for me is why the screenwriter chose to tell just a small slice of the story of this great novel, and even worse, why they chose to "bring to life" only the most depressing and frankly least interesting parts of it! If the theme of loss is one you're very interested in, you might find this movie quite affecting.  As for me, a great fan of the book, I can only hope that someday someone makes a better & more complete adaptation of this great book. It's not nearly as desperate & sad a story as this film version!

On subsequent viewings I've grown to appreciate this film a bit more. Taken completely apart from the novel, it's not a "bad" film. Undoubtedly, the performances are wonderful, however little fun they are to watch.
