I am amazed and mystified that most of the reviewers herein found the movie to be excellent!! As for me, I made it about thirty minutes into the film before turning it off in dismay. The fault in order of importance: poor screenplay, poor cinematography and poor performance by Pacino, who seems to be vying for the most over-the-top performance. The film was absurd in many ways from the outset: the pans from star to star lasting just short of giving the viewer any purpose for any of the fast camera pans. Close-up after close-up conveying no meaning, Pacino overacting like Jack Palance in one of his not-so-famous European pieces of tripe from the sixties and seventies, an utterly dumb plot with Pacino and company proving at the beginning that they are bumbling cops. 

First example, they chase the bad guy to a cabin which is on stilts or something like that; then, instead of staying on the ground below and smoking the bad guy out or something at least tactically sound, they storm the stairs and Pacino stands right in front of the door yelling "Police, you're under arrest."

They kick in the front door and find that the culprit has escaped through an underground water source. Of course, Pacino follows and dives right into the underwater stream, having absolutely no idea where the guy is or if there are boobytraps of some sort. 

Cut to Pacino running around in nearly zero visibility fog, glimpsing the guy for a second or two before losing him in the fog. Stumbling around further, Pacino is obviously disoriented until a shot is fired at him from, we must assume, his quarry. Did the screen writer forget that Pacino's colleagues are also supposedly chasing the culprit, too? 

Inevitably and apparently not, because Pacino spots a figure in the fog and plugs him. As I watched this scene unfold, I became thoroughly disheartened when it becomes clear what I knew already, that Pacino has fired on and killed his partner. It was then that I decided that I had had enough. 

By the way, the European version, with Stellan Skarsgaard is infinitely superior. Don't waste your money or on-line rental queue on this Hollywood drivel. Ditto for the other Pacino junk I rented at the same time, The Recruit, which I could only stand for about a half hour too
