I only gave this movie one star because it is against Amazon's rules to give it no stars. After hearing that this was a Christian movie, I could not wait to watch it. However, this movie has nothing in common with Christianity, quite the contrary, this is the most anti-Christian movie that I have ever seen; it promotes murder and other unsurpassable evil. 

The movie started out horribly and just continued to get worse. For instance, the beginning of the movie was shockingly pornographic. In a supposedly "Christian" movie I did not expect to be bombarded with this. After seeing this I did not expect that the movie could possibly get worse. However, I was greatly mistaken. Later in the movie the main character, who was remarkably unsympathetic, met several of her Christian co-workers who were talking about something they called "the pearl dream." Intrigued, the main character asked them what this dream was. Of course, they were unable to answer because it is complete nonsense. None the less, the main character continues to review what her co-workers have told her about Christianity over the years. As the movie plods along, generally confusing and boring the viewer, she comes to the decision to give up her sinful lifestyle and turn to God. When this event transpired I assumed, wrongly, that from this point forward the film would redeem its beginning and maybe even say something good about Christianity. This, however, is where the movie went form being merely bad to astoundingly  sacrilegious. 

Then, the main character and her young daughter set out for the desert. Due to a vague dream, they believed that this was God's will and that He would appear in the desert and take them to heaven, in other words "rapture" them. How they came to this assumption I was never quite sure. The movie often made ludicrous statements  which never made the slightest amount of sense. I became extremely weary trying to deduce what was happening. Nothing that took place in this movie was remotely Biblical nor was it well explained. 

As time passed our characters continued to sit in the desert, boring the viewer to tears. They begin to suspect that God was not coming to gather them to heaven and they started to despair. This is where the movie became intolerably anti-Christian; the mother took her daughter up to a mountain and asked her to kneel. She then forced her daughter to pray. After the prayer was concluded she took a gun from her dress and shot her crying daughter, supposedly to send her to heaven. She "believes" that she is doing God's will. Obviously, she was such an idiot that she failed to read that the Bible that strictly forbids murder. Afterwards, she is sent to prison, where we hope to see her suffer for her cruel, viscous, and insurmountably stupid act. As she is sitting in her cell, blaming God for the murder of her daughter, that she willingly committed (If she had half a brain cell she would have realized that she was doing Satan's will, not God's), she hears trumpets and the cell walls start to fall in. A few scenes pass, in which the ghost of her daughter returns and tries to redeem her faith. She, however, refuses. Then, she is taken to a dark room, that the viewer is supposed to believe is some supernatural place where judgment takes place, and asks if she loves God. She replies no, because she blames Him for her insanity. The film concludes with her standing stupidly in a dark room, that failed to represent eternity. 

Most of the aspects included in the film were never explained. Such as the significance of "the pearl dream." Nor was it explained why they believed that they needed to wait in the desert. How did they contrive this ridiculous idea from a vague, ambiguous, and utterly vapid dream anyway? None of these questions were ever answered. This caused the film to feel incomplete. The stories between scenes shifted so drastically that I suspected I had missed several important scenes. After checking my DVD I realized that I had not accidentally skipped crucial scenes, because their were none. This film was deliberately ambiguous and vapid. 

Also, the special effects, cinematography, and acting were about as good as a preschool play. None of the actors put any emotion into their roles. They recited their lines like drugged zombies; I suppose even they realized it was complete rubbish and decided not to put much effort into it. 

To state the obvious, this film is a disgrace! Obviously, it is not Biblically based. It does NOT represent Christian philosophy which is to love others, not to wander around aimlessly in the desert acting like a fool. Nor do Christians promote murder, as this film implied. This movie has as much religious value as Night of the Blind Nazi Zombies. I am ashamed to see that such a complete travesty is labeled a Christian film. This film is extremely anti-Christian; its main objective is to give the world the false impression that fundamentalist Christians are brainwashed and are incapable of sane thoughts. This is not true, and yes, I can prove it. All the proof that you need is contained in the Bible. If you stop hardening your heart and truly listen with an open mind then you cannot help but to see Jesus loving message for the world. He does not desire to bring misery to the world, but happiness and love. The reason that there is misery in the world is because people, like those who made this film, disobey God. If we followed His loving rules then we would not suffer. I do not write this rather long review out of hatred, as I am sure many will accuse me of. I write this to warn people what this movie is really about. It is not a true Christian movie like the Left Behind's and The Passion of the Christ.  And, yes I am aware that I will be bombarded by a slough of negative votes. However, I do not even faintly care. My beliefs, as a fundamentalist Christian and my love of God  is more important to me than a  number on a page.

Also, I was shocked to read the other reviews on this forum, especially the one from the Wiccan woman who said that she wished to see Christians thrown to the lions as they were in the time of the Romans. I have seen a lot of hatred in my life but her review was by far the worst I have ever see. Christians love the world and those in it, we do not tell non-Christians about Christ to imply that we are "holier than thou" because we are not. All are equal under God's eyes. We are all sinners and the only way to attain redemption is to accept God's undeserved grace. We tell other people about God's undeserved love because we want to save them and see them living in eternal joy in Heaven. We do not rejoice to see people unsaved, we tell them about their condition because we want to see them saved. In other words, we tell people because we love them. Also, for those of you who accuse Christians of having a hatred of the world, why do you spew hatred in everything you say toward Christians? Aren't you displaying the hatred that you claim you abhor?

In conclusion, this is the worst movie ever made. It is anti-Christian, immensely sacrilegious, poorly acted, poorly written, vapid, mind numbingly dull, disjointed, tortuously long, etc. In short, this film is an abomination. It is massively offensive to Christians and is a massive misrepresentation of Christian values. Also, the acting is abysmal and the story line hopelessly confusing. If you wish to watch a film that accurately portrays Christian values then I recommend watch "The Passion of the Christ" or the Left Behind movies.  I hope that this review will help you; it was written with love and concern. I shall keep you in my prayers. Have a wonderful new year.

In Christ,
Ravenova

Also recommended:  The Left Behind and the Ravenloft book Series
