Saw "Hart's War" the other night and couldn't really believe anyone would invest money and time in a film as awful as this one.  This film bombed at the box office and was yanked from circulation after only a few days.   Here are ten reasons why:

1.  This film isn't "The Great Escape" and even though he would probably like to think otherwise, Bruce Willis isn't Steve McQueen.  Even though Willis received top billing, this is a Colin Farrell vehicle. 
 
2.  The vast majority of the target audience of 18-34 year old moviegoing males could care less about what happened during the Reagan administration, much less World War II.  "Hart's War" may just as well be a film about a POW camp during the War of 1812.  Anything with Vin Diesel or the Rock would be bound to sell more tickets.

3.  As far as depicting life in a POW camp, "Hart's War" is pretty much on par with "Hogan's Heroes".  The Germans are nice guys with guns who don't know very much and everyone gets away with just about anything.  Where did the GI's get all those cigarettes, anyway?

4.  Any Stalag Luft comandant worth his weight in sauerkraut would have just as soon killed the Bruce Willis character as look at him.  As depicted in "Hart's War", the camp commandant (as portrayed by Marcel Lures) would have had a very difficult time maintaining any sort of status as an officer in the German Army.  His collection of American jazz/blues records is a cute writer's invention that has nothing to do with the reality of the situation, or of the type of men who were in charge of German POW camps.  In reality, the Marcel Lures character would probably have been relegated to another type of nazi camp with a pink triangle sewn on the front of his tunic.

5.  The storyline is not completely unbelievable - trials did take place in POW camps, one good example being the POW's who were tried and hung in Andersonville;  However, the whole idea that the camp's commandant would actively participate in such a trial as sort of a Jerry Springer type advocate is ludicrous.

6.  The idea that during the trial, a group of POW's who escape go on a secret mission to destroy a nearby munitions factory is insulting.  Not only did nothing like this ever happen during World War II, it degrades the bravery of those poor souls whose only act of heroism was to survive internment under harsh and sometimes brutal conditions.  The German army simply wasn't that stupid.

7.  I saw this film once and didn't like it.  I thought that maybe the second time would be better.  It wasn't.

8.  Beyond being sheer Hollywood political correctness, "Hart's War" seriously misrepresents many of the more important aspects of internment.  It ignores the real focus of life in such a Stalag which, for most POW's, was just day to day survival.  Also, the soldiers who served in our armed forces during World War II and also happened to be African Americans weren't spineless, hapless dopes.

9.  Bruce Willis playing the same role in variations of "Die Hard" over and over and over again is tiring.

10.  Better films about the same sort of subject matter are "The Tuskeegee Airmen" and "Stalag 17".  Hopefully in a few years, "Hart's War" will be completely forgotten, and these dvd's will be rotting in some landfill.
 
