I had several friends INSIST that I rent this film. I'm glad I did instead of buying it. I was not bowled over as they obviously were - quoting lines from it and all but wetting themselves remembering scenes from the film.

Now, I'm not a hard guy to make laugh, but there was only one point in this film where I actually laughed out loud. Other than that, I found Sordid Lives to be just tediously amateurish and more than a bit forced.

I love Southern humor and even poking fun at Southerners: I can't tell you how much I love Greater Tuna, Fried Green Tomatos, Steel Magnolias, etc. but this just didn't cut it for me.

The cast is a who's who of excellent character actors: Beau Bridges, Bonnie Bedelia, Leslie Jordan, Olivia Newton-John (for pete's sake!), Erik Krieger, Delta Burke and gobs of others. No, it's not a shortage of talent that this film lacks. I found that it was a lack of a cohesive direction that made me wince more than once.

There's a scene with Ty (an out of the closet to everyone but his parents young man who lives in West Hollywood) talking to his ex-girlfriend in the reception area of their therapist...well, as a theatre director, I can only tell you that the performances during this one scene are so painfully badly acted and the pregnant pauses between the lines are so large you could drive fleets of trucks through them.

There are various filming techniques that Del Shores (the director) uses that are just hackneyed: filming from behind a person's back so that only the back of one person's head and the facing person are seen. Why? It feels like a testimonial "video" from MTV's Real World rather than an actual film.

Frankly - and this is not always a bad thing - the whole film felt like it was a play converted to film. It can be a great thing! Look at Altmans' Come Back to the Five and Dime Jimmy Dean and you'll see how a good stage to film movie is done. But this...well, it's just amateur hour from my perspective.

In all, the film felt like a poor man's Greater Tuna (two quick change artists playing 16 characters living in Texas' 3rd smallest town), which WAS a stage play and WAS filmed for HBO as a stage play rather than attempting to make it FEEL like a film.

I wanted to like this film, but I just didn't
