Bulworth is ostensibly Warren Beatty's brave political satire in which a conservative senator suddenly starts liberally voicing those opinions that the rest of us are supposed to be thinking but are afraid to say. He tells a black church congregation to, "Put away the malt liquor and fried chicken and stop supporting running backs that stab their wives." If that's what you were thinking, you'll love this movie.
Otherwise, Bulworth is jaw droppingly bad. To take such a hight position as to attack Beatty for suggesting that black characters need a white powerbroking partriarch to come to his senses before their concerns can be publicly considered is to give Bulworth way more credit than it deserves. It's distinguished from movies that are simply "bad" through its inclusion on the short list of truly dangerous ones. Not content to be racism hiding in plain site, Bulworth's racism is disguised as its own solution. Drug dealers have their transactions justified as the only commercial avenue open to otherwise well-intended African-American youths. Nina (Halle Berry) articulates an informed point, and it's a joke because attractive young black women look funny when they talk smart, like high-grammar versions of Zip Coon. In so doing, Beatty reminds black Americans that no matter what they accomplish, we know who they really are.
However limited the potential of the opening premise (Bulworth plans his own assassination for insurance purposes before inevitably changing his mind), the film never approaches the kind of Farley Brotheresque world that would have been its natural destination. The sincerity of the politician's catharsis is hidden from us, both because his new outlook is originally motivated only by the insurance scam and because once Beatty starts rapping his lines, he NEVER stops, making the actor (as opposed to the character) look uncomfortable for the duration. That this movie lured audiences and critics into its didactic spell is astonishing.
The film's ambition to be more than a cute little movie while being exactly the opposite reminds this reviewer of Roberto Benigni's embarrassing "Life is Beautiful" from the year before. Both have to be seen to be believed
