"St. Elmo's Fire" is one of those movies that could have been better, should have been better and yet, it just wasn't.
It featured an ensemble cast of THE young and hot stars of the 1980s, the so-called Brat Pack (well, everyone but Molly Ringwald and Anthony Michael Hall, who were spared this misstep).  Maybe this was supposed to be "The Breakfast Club - - After College", but while "The Breakfast Club" had characters, even stereotypical characters, that you could relate to, there is absolutely no one, with the exception of Emilio Estevez' character, that you care enough about to relate to in this film.
The setting is not the John Hughes teen friendly Illinois, but Georgetown, where our bunch of Brat Packers have supposedly graduated from college.  Uh-huh.  Yeah, RIGHT.  
Judd Nelson and Ally Sheedy are living together and supposedly looking toward marriage - - problem is, Nelson is looking at and screwing everything else female that walks by and somehow hoping that Sheedy, in her prim and proper sweater and skirt sets and pearls can change that.  Andrew McCarthy is their mutual friend who knows what Nelson is up to and secretly harboring a festering desire for Sheedy (or maybe it's just the pearls?)  Emilio Estevez is a future attorney, working as a waiter/server and suffering a serious crush on Andie MacDowell.  Mare Winningham is a dowdy, trust-fund type girl who is still holding on to her virginity, working in social services and fighting over marrying the proper dork that her parents have selected for her.  She instead fantasizes about Rob Lowe, who is the pretty boy sax player in a local band, who has dropped out of school, married a white trash-y looking groupie, had a child with her and has now separated from her, and taking up with other groupies.  Demi Moore is the wild chick who works in international banking, has a serious coke problem, stepmother issues and a problem with painting her apartment walls hot pink and with giant murals of Billy Idol.  
Sounds promising, huh?  Well, in what is an early portend of the "Melrose Place" to come, Sheedy finds out what a dog Nelson is, dumps his ass, immediately jumps into bed with McCarthy, who is too desperately in love with her to realize that this is a rebound job; Estevez, after screwing up a lucrative house-sitting job by hosting a party there, travels to the snowy mountains to track down MacDowell and profess his love to her.  He finds that she is holed up there with her boyfriend and despite being crushed, he lays a huge kiss on her and then heads back home.  Lowe, in between faux-playing his sax and shaking his feathered head everywhere, takes Winningham's virginity and heads back to his estranged missus.  Moore, after whining seemingly incessantly about her ill stepmother, has all her furnishings repossessed, loses her job and freaks out.
Not exactly "The Breakfast Club".  
The real problems seem to lie in the characters themselves.  With the exception of Estevez' character, they all seem like caricatures and horribly stereotyped.  Their every action, every line of dialogue seems like just that - - they seem very one dimensional.  Their so-called angst seems like a handy plotline device and nothing more than that.
Winningham's character could have been salvagable - -except that she followed Lowe around like a sick puppy, knowing full well how he mistreated his wife and what a basic slacker he was.  And yet, she still gave her virginity to him.  Maybe if Winningham wasn't so bright, or she was a college freshman, it would be understandable.  But she was a college graduate and seemingly intelligent.
Lowe really had little to do with his role.  Maybe if he had played the role Nelson had - - as the roving Lothario, with Sheedy waiting at home, it might have gone over better.  With his too-pretty looks, it would almost be understandable how the character could get random women he just met to sneak into dressing rooms with him.  Nelson just doesn't seem comfortable and doesn't pull it off - -but maybe Nelson might have been better suited for the sax player.
Moore basically plays herself - -an interesting sidenote is that she was originally fired from this production for her drug problems, mirroring her character - - but was later rehired.
While the title song later become a minor hit, "St. Elmo's Fire" itself missed the mark. 
