Before I review, I'd like to clear something up: I am a very latecomer in seeing this movie. I was introduced to the Ghost in the Shell franchise through the new Anime series airing on Adult Swim, Ghost in the Shell: Standalone Complex. I absolutely love that show, and so I figured eventually I'd have to get around to seeing the movie, which I knew full well shares no connection with the show. They're both seperate interperetations of the comic series of the same name, (which I have not read, so I don't know which is more accurate) but the TV series is exponentially better than this movie in almost every concievable way.

There are many things I don't like about this movie, the biggest being poor pacing. The plot for the movie is actually surprisingly straightforward once you cut away all the filler, but that's the biggest problem. There's not really enough story to last a full-length feature, because it seems almost like it was originally written with the intention of being a 30 minute short. And since they didn't have the budget to load the movie up with action scenes (there are barely any, and they aren't very impressive for the most part) they had to slow the story down with drawn out conversations that you won't understand more than 60% of, and camera shots that last for what feels like minutes where we're looking at either nothing, or a woman's nipples. That's not cinematic artistry, that's being either lazy or perverted.

The animation itself isn't even that good, especially considering that this is was a theatrical release from only 10 years ago. It's choppy, and there's not really a whole lot of detail (except when it comes to women's nipples). Looking at just the animation, if I didn't know better, I'd have thought this movie was an OVA from the 1980's.

The only thing I can really say I liked about this movie was that it was Ghost in the Shell. It's probably kind of like how I didn't see the 1989 Batman movie until years after I'd been spoiled by Batman the Animated Series, and couldn't bring myself to like it for any reason other than that it was Batman. Everything about the TV series is superior to this movie: the animation, the stories, the character developement, the production values... I could go on for an entire page about how much better the TV series is.

In short, if you're you're at all interested in the GITS franchise, do yourself a favor and rent the DVDs of the TV show instead. You'll find a lot to love, but I can't say the same about the movie. My dream is that someday Alex Proyas will give us a GITS movie that lives up to what I would hope for after watching Standalone Complex
