Francisco was right, this film is about as well-conceived as buttcrust.

The review on the back of the dvd says "jaw dropping, " but the full quote probably reads "jaw dropping (because i was lulled to sleep like a baby)". There is about 30 seconds of truly jaw dropping footage, in the zombie attack scenes, but these scenes only account for maybe 5 minutes of the movie. The rest of this film consists of the ear-bleeding whines and yawn-inducing infighting of the human characters, ill-conceived and extremely unlikable caricatures of a pseudo-cynical and extremely redundant "evil side of human nature" message that would be better left to Jean Renoir (or even Adam Sandler considering the results here). I don't watch zombie movies for the characters, especially characters so vapid and unengaging. It seemed like the script writer read a novice's How To pamphlet and said "yeah, it needs some CONFLICT". If these characters weren't so constipated and bloated I'd give them a chance. One Amazon reviewer tries to justify all of the one-dimensional absurdity by crowning it with the weighty title of "social commentary," but that's just a mindless knee-jerk observation that fails to ascertain whether it was carried out sucessfully. It wasn't.  You'd get more insight watching a kid frying ants with a magnifying glass. The critical ambitions of this movie are ill-fitting and embarassing, and ultimately just plain disappointing since they allot almost no time to showcase the director's real talent, which is (you guessed it) the lovely undead. The rest is monotonous dreck.   I don't know why horror directors have so much insecurity about the worth of their strengths that they feel they need to shroud them in a poor man's dramatic rags. 

All that aside, the ending is the worst anticlimatic cop-out in the history of horror movies. A horror movie that sucks for 3/4 of its duration needs a cool climax to redeem itself, but the cut-away at the end makes you wanna kick the director in the gonads. Sorry, but anyone who calls this a classic is a friggin soundbite-repeating moron.
 
