I really tried to come to this movie with and open mind. I'm a huge fan of Jane Austen and I thought the 1995 BBC miniseries actually came close to doing justice to her novel. Still, I was looking foreward to seeing a new interpretation. Unfortunately this one seemed to miss the point of the story. 

Jane Austen had a hilarious way of satarizing the social conventions and mores while being in their midst. This film ignores the social conventions altogether and therefore misses a great deal of Austen's humor. For example an unmarried man and woman would NEVER greet each other in their pajamas. A man would never visit his fiancee while she was lying sick in bed in her nightgown. When these rules of propriety are ignored by the film, how are we supposed to understand or believe that it's a big deal when Lydia runs away with Wickham!? Another example is Lady Catherine. This is a woman who lives and dies by her snobbery and rigorous adherance to social conventions. Yet in this film we see her barge into the Bennet household in the middle of the night and wake Lizzie up to ask a question that could easily waited until morning (when Lady Catherine wouldn't have had to get her carriage driver out of bed to drive several miles in the dark- no streetlights remember- to the Bennet household) Because no one adhere's to societies rigorous, and for the most part arbitrary, rules, the movie misses the opportunies to subtly wink at the audience as it laughs at such things.

Another weakness lies in the casting. Granted these actors had big shoes to fill. Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle seemed to embody their characters in the 1995 miniseries, but as I said, there are other ways to interpret and play the characters. Unforunately here everyone seems as if they're reading lines with dramatic inflection- not acting. You can almost imagine Keira Knightly's script having notes saying "insert spunkiness here".  

While the scenery is lovely, the windswept cliff and farm images seem to recollect the tortured landscape of a Bronte adaptation more than a manacured Austen setting. 

Overall this film comes off as one big missed opportunity
