I hate lawyers.

What is a lawyer, anyway? Basically: it's a telemarketer in a decent suit, a guy who would be hawking the latest Ronco Hair-in-a-Can super-duper late night special to folks in Akron over his plantronic headset, only he won the genetic lottery and got shot out of an upper-middle class womb. 

Shakespeare said it first and best: "First, let's kill all the lawyers!". Former Enron uber-dealmaker John Wing put a little fast-times Houston spin on that one: "get all the lawyers in a room---and shoot 'em!---in the mouth, so you *can't* miss!" 

Exactly. Anyway, "The Firm" is a flick that purports to make the world of high-priced yappers jaw-rippingly exciting, so I was probably all amped up to despise it. 

But not really: back before I dug into a gig with the Dark Side in high finance, back when I was hefting a backpack over the sodden campus of my old alma mater, I briefly considered going into law: briefly, for about an hour. It was a desperate time, and I needed money. 

Why did I consider walking Hell's Highway, if only for an instant? Because John Grisham, boring lawyer-turned-ripping-potboiler-writer-turned-back-into-boring-lawyer, a kind of Tom Clancy for the paper-pusher and green-eyeshade set, made it all sound pretty damned funky (and lucrative! Hey, dig that BMW 7 series, baby, beep beep!) in his engrossing little novel "The Firm": granted, I've read better prose on the backs of cereal boxes, but it held my attention. 

I mean, seriously: you're 19, and the whole flying out on the corporate Lear to Grand Cayman and switching out briefcases full of cash sounds kinda cool. And strippers, man, plenty of strippers. Oh, and did someone mention a BMW?

What's the difference between a lawyer and a snake? The snake at least has the decency to hiss before it sinks its fangs into your a**. 

Now it's true: Grisham writes like Kim Jong Il sings, but---in "The Firm", anyway---he was a master craftsman at moving things along at a bristling pace, from the pedestrian---hotshot Law School whiz kid gets picked up by a Memphis white-shoe law firm---to the Pretty Damned Atrocious, all while keeping the pressure ratcheted up with a dense, suffocating sense of malice. 

Grisham, like Michael Crichton, isn't a prose genius: he's not even mediocre. But he writes for film, and "The Firm" cried out for cinematic treatment. 

So it's baffling that, with all the right Stuff---Tom Cruise as winsome lead Mitch McDeere, Gene Hackman doing his chain-drinking Gene Hackman thang as the corrupt (but ultimately worn-out and pathetic) senior partner, and Sydney Pollack helming it up---that the big-screen treatment of "The Firm" is such a yawner. 

Talk about contempt of court.

Pollack takes all that intricately woven little Grisham-plot and barfs big ugly chunks of it up on the screen. At its guts, really, "The Firm" was really nothing more than the Big Career Nightmare: I've bet the farm on this gig, I'm getting big money, I'm working like a fiend, my wife is having trouble remembering my name, and evidently I'm not doing tax-deals for loaded clients---I'm doing money laundering for The Mob. 

Pollack just mangles the whole thing, convolutes the simple, and renders up a flick that will have you checking your watch and yawning. Casting is part of the problem: Cruise does his thing, running around Memphis with his briefcase. Hackman drinks a lot and exudes pure Armani-clad sleaze: "The Firm" is all funny-wrinkles when he's onscreen, but hey, a man can only do so much. 

Jeanne Tripplehorn (Cruise's squeeze), who plays Lara San Giacomo when she's not playing Tripplehorn (seriously, google the two of 'em: astounding!) is a bitter old battleaxe who made me want to stick forks in my eyes. Wilford Brimley is just plain wrong as The Firm's security chief: too bald, too cracker, too rotund, too silly, too low-end, to do the role justice. 

Holly Hunter is even worse: Hunter is one of those eighties thangs who got pumped up as Something Sexy, which is baffling, given that she's about 3'8, and has all the sex appeal of an Oompah-Loompah. It doesn't help that she's a big, ugly Southern stereotype, the caricature most denizens of dumpy Michigan towns imagine Southerners to be. You want her to die: she doesn't. Pollack wants us to think she's clever and funny. She isn't. 

Ed Harris, I think, is in this movie. So is Hal Holbrook, which kinda ruins everything, because everytime Hal Holbrook is in a movie you know you're dealing with a bunch of friggin' crooks.  

Anyway, the coup de grace to the stupidity is the entrance, Deus Ex Machina, of Paul Sorvino (Don Morolto---what kind of Goombah name is dat, anyway? Somebody call Tony Soprano!), who takes this juggernaut of boredom from the merely stupid to the totally ridiculous. 

If you wanna see Tom Cruise running around Memphis with his briefcase for two hours, by all means belly up to the bar. 

Otherwise, case dismissed. 

JS
