"Rip It Off" is not an easy film to watch. In short, it is dull and meanders from plot line to plot line, leaving only the most attentive viewer (read: myself) to guess at what was going to happen next. But not in a good way. Judging from its drab look and unimaginatively shot scenes, not to mention a script whose dialogue borders on the absurd, it never ceases to amaze me how it managed to attract such well-known and talented personalities as Alyson Hannigan and Jennifer Esposito. It begs the question: WHY DID YOU DO THIS FILM? Or, on a personal note, why did I BUY this film, especially at $22 and change? Frankly, I bought it because of Alyson Hannigan: she's gorgeous, obviously intelligent, and the girl can act. Individually speaking, she does not disappoint here. It's obvious that she really didn't want to sleep walk through her role as Lexi, and she gives the other actors a lot of material to work with. Although the silly musical leitmotifs seem deliberately crafted to undermine her scenes, she is a singularly interesting actor to watch, and her performance simply wants me to see her do more, preferably a more mature and fully fleshed out character in a serious film (see Jennifer Aniston in her brave performance in "The Good Girl.")But enough gushing: if Ms. Hannigan had not been as engaged, I would have trashed her soundly. Most everyone else in "Rip It Off" (with the possible exception of the fellow who plays Sergei with operatic relish) is more or less "phoning it in" when they do their scenes. This made me lack any kind of sympathy for them in addition to making me sleepy. Also, films of such low production value should come with a printed warning of some sort: BEWARE! DO NOT ADJUST YOUR SCREEN; THE APPEARANCE OF THE FILM IS INHERENTLY BAD. "Rip It Off" and films of its ilk give independent filmmaking a black eye. I've seen black and white student films with greater intrigue and atmosphere than this turkey. And, contrary to the technical description of the DVD, IT IS PRESENTED IN THE HORROR THAT IS FULL SCREEN, AND NOT WIDESCREEN. Can you believe people invest money in these films? (Ahem.
