Incredible does describe this movie- incredibly bad! This movie doesn't know what it wants to be. At times one can see attempts to recreate and milk the genuine rage and drama of "Mississippi Burning" or the anger and impunity of "Ghosts of Mississippi", or a hybrid of those and bits and pieces of other movies of this genre. At other times it looks like its just trying to draw from the sex appeal and cheesy interaction of 2 of its main actors, Matthew McConaughey and Sandra Bullock. As a result this movie picks up the rear in that genre's list of movies for lack of originality, and the scattered hodge podge statements it tries to make. Some of my favorite actors are wasted, either by being given cliched dialogue, over acting, or being put there merely for their brand name with no script to support their presence. If this script is considered a great adaptation of a great book, then I have no interest in reading the book. I'm sure the idea and the premise looked good on paper. But the direction doesn't guide the story with any coherence or identity of its own.  Bullock is mere cheesecake and is unbelievable in her role, proving she's only worthy of b-grade "Miss Congeniality" type crud.  McConaughey over acts so much (as can be said for Keifer Sutherland and others) that it can be said he balances out the under acting of Patrick McGoohan, Kevin Spacey and Donald Sutherland. Samuel L. Jackson should be ashamed of himself of not only his worst performance ever, but also easily his worst choice of movies to participate in.  Even the extras in this movie are horrible. Enough can't be said about the terrible direction in this movie, equating elongated facial shots with drama to a fault, making Sergio Leone westerns look much more authentic by comparison. This is not "a powerful film." It's a powerful attempt at using a big name cast, a brand name book and a capable director to use material that they know would easily jerk the emotions of its audience, and in doing that they resort to all the cliches of this genre scattering the story line in so many directions, culminating in an over the top, pleading hunk of cheese summation scene by McConaughey that wouldn't hold water in any real court of justice. Maybe people claim greatness to this movie out of guilt, or because they haven't seen quality comparisons and classics like "Mississippis Burning," that has both a great script and fabulous acting. I don't know. All I know is it tugs from so many hokey directions it takes the final scene to remind everyone how it started. Among the top of my most over rated movies
