I checked this out because I wanted to take a look at what the new Doctor Who people have been doing in the recent past.  The Second Coming isn't quite as cosmic, but it certainly engages us in some comparable flights of fancy. Steve Baxter (Christopher Eccleston) has an epiphany one night when he's out on the town with some mates. He reckons he's become the Son of God and he proceeds to turn night into day at Maine Road football ground in order to demonstrate his divinely-chosen status (a bit like David Icke, except with powers). His immediate friends take their time to come to terms with this and despite becoming the `new disciples' some of them - notably Judith his girlfriend (Lesley Sharp) - remain sceptical. Through the media he tells the world that they must come up with a `Third Testament'. It later transpires that if they do not, the end of the world will soon follow.

What are this messiah's credentials? Well, he spends forty days in the wilderness which is Saddleworth Moor and he has no earthly father - it turns out that his dad is infertile and couldn't have fathered him. This tickled me. Did writer Russell T. Davis pass his GCSE in Religious Studies, do we think? I couldn't really work out whether the religious symbolism was unconsciously corny and nave or whether it aimed at giving us a laugh. I'd like to think the latter. Steve, curiously, isn't what we might describe as spiritual - certainly not religious. He swears all the time, boozes and although not quite loutish, is somewhat laddish. He's a laddish messiah. His disciples swear at him and he insults them back. (Message to southerners - we in the north are not all like this, despite the plethora of dramas which suggest otherwise: Preston Front, Our Friends in the North, etc. Writers do seem to have this desire to patronise us thus.)

What's noticeable about the founders of the major world religions is that they managed to espouse some degree of religious wisdom. Steve, who just witters nonsensically to the crowds, seems to lack this facility. Is he meant to be devoid of wisdom? Are we asking too much of Russell T. Davis to place some in his mouth? Could he have done so had he wished? Presumably our writer would need to possess some himself! (Jury's out.) It turns out that the party piece belongs to the sceptical girlfriend who clearly becomes the mouthpiece for the programme's message.

So what happens? Despite almost two hours of waiting for Judgement Day, with little action or plot development we eventually come to learn that our messiah is something of a damp squib. He ends up at the girlfriend's home where she feeds him a dish of spaghetti a la rat poison which he takes willingly but not before we discover that he is really just a sort of encapsulation or epitome of human religiosity. Enlightened humanity - Judith - finally comes to realise that she can and must live without him and she spits him out. They argue for a while before atheism wins out and Steve chomps down the poisoned pasta (after the two hours I found myself saying `bon appetit'). So we get the sermon, although it's a secular one which declares the futility of religious belief. But this messiah seemed to me to be almost devoid of any meaningful religious ideas anyway. You can't debunk what doesn't exist. Steve can't be a foil for atheism if he IS a kind of atheism. I suppose that we do end up questioning Russell T Davis's understanding of spirituality, not to say he should necessarily adhere to religion or spirituality, but perhaps to understand it to come degree. And yes, there is a naivety and a corniness which underpins all this third-form philosophy, typical of so many young people working within the arts. 

It's a pity that the message of the piece couldn't have been delivered within the actual context of the drama itself. What we have is a two hour TV play followed by a secular sermon, subtext puked out and all. We do have an epilogue, however, where our new-found heroine is hilariously transfigured at the supermarket. I do recommend The Second Coming for amusement, but for enlightenment you'd better have something else to hand.
