Well, this was about as formulaically politically correct as a movie can get, unfortunately: the female teenage protagonist (played by Witherspoon, whose acting powers have increased dramatically since her stilted acting here) acts masculine and heroic, the male teenage protagonist acts craven and flippant. At one ridiculous point, the girl runs around acting like a commando, a veritable one-gal army, blowing up the bad guys, while the boy hides in a cave sniveling. Later, when the boy tries to assert himself by offering to carry the gal's backpack as they cross a desert, the gal snaps at him, Bella Abzug-style, and walks quickly ahead, leaving him in the dust. Clearly a modern radical feminist thing going on here, and what is most unfortunate is that this movie was made for a young audience and therefore is in keeping with the modern radical feminist propaganda which is brainwashing young women into unnaturally behaving like men. Of course, in the real world, the result for such manly girls, once they become women, is that men do not choose them and they remain alone, and therefore become bitter--ironically and inevitably blaming men, of course. In this movie, the wimpy teenage guy falls for the brassy, masculine gal--but that's why they call them movies. When are these post-modern writers, artists, and other culture-shapers with an agenda going to realize that when they tout modern radical feminism, they are touting something unnatural--men simply do not prefer masculine females. Men want someone to COMPLEMENT them, not COMPETE with them. Men crave FEMININITY in females, not FEMINISM. Wow, is there ever a difference in those two forms of comportment! This poor teenage guy depicted in this movie, at least his character does progress a little bit: by the end of the movie, instead of craven and flippant, he graduates to something akin to a metrosexual-type with a wild-boy haircut, if that is even a step upward. But the plucky gal--she's still the one in charge in this fictitious world of upside-down gender relations.
Uh, another problem with this movie--and there are many--is when the kids are going through the Kalahari Desert, something which should be, and for a time is here depicted as, a foreboding and life-threatening task. Yet we see Witherspoon in this desert frolicking with a dog; and we see the boy's flippancy and joviality emerge in a totally out-of-place manner, considering the dire situation they are in. The sense of urgency which had been built up is totally excreted away by these light-hearted, inane scenes.
Look, I dig Disney kid movies--more realistic ones. You know, old style Disney movies. You take "Old Yeller" for example. Now there was a quality kid movie, and quite true to life. 
This movie was not. It had a plastic, spoiled-American-materialistic-teenybopper feel throughout. Disney has gone down the tubes. In any number of ways, they've been subverted by radical Marxist agendas (Note: One more of these was the fact that an African Bushman was allowed to evince a pagan ritual from his PC pagan religion--something called "tapping," while the Caucasians were of course not shown evincing any sign of their un-PC Judeo-Christian religion--this is bias, folks, leftwing, PC bias, same as the aforementioned feminist bilge). I am learning to run, not walk, away from Disney stuff, and this movie was further cause for me to do so.
