Well folks, looks like we may have the most over praised movie of the current millennium right here. ("Crash" comes close, but that film has a lot more detractors than this one, and many of those who liked it seemed to do so because they imagined, somehow, that it would "change the world".)  My beefs are not the same as most of those who don't like the film:  I don't much care that it may show an unrealistic picture of drug abuse, nor do I find it overly depressing.  Fact is, it isn't depressing at all cause I didn't care.  It's just boring and annoying, sometimes at different moments, sometimes simultaneously.  This not a good combination.

All right, here's a plot summary:  Jared Leto, Marlon Wayans, Jennifer Connelly and Ellen Burstyn all do drugs, and this really messes up their lives. I hate to give it all away like that, but there it is.  The fundamental flaw is this: I don't like any of these people, so their pain doesn't mean anything, and since that is all there is to this movie it absolutely fails to have any sort of effect.  Maybe if Aronofsky had put more time in to characterization it would've worked, but now there just isn't anything there.  As far as what's actually in the movie, we've got  Jared Leto as a stupid chunkhead who has inane conversations with his equally chunkheaded girlfriend Jennifer Connelly, who wants to be a fashion designer, or something.  Beyond this we've got Jared's mother, Ellen Burstyn, who is a weird old woman and Marlon Wayans as Leto's friend who deals drugs with him at times and appears headed towards the big leagues.  I particularly love how there's no real attempt to make Wayans into a person.  He's got one flashback about how he wanted to make his mom proud and that's it.  The doubly sad fact is that he's the most likable of the three.  He at least displays a little life.  Connelly and Leto apparently just wandered here from a Bergman film and are so dull and slow that it's a wonder that the smack doesn't cause them to cease to exist entirely.  (Well, Connelly actually does coke, I think, but it fails to liven her up any.  Also, I actually *like* the Bergman films I've seen, so that's not really a fair comparison.)  They love each other, apparently, but since I don't even like either of them I'm not much interested.  Finally, Burstyn is mostly just creepy though her performance does take a turn for the hilarious as she goes off the deep end.  Perhaps it wouldn't have been funny if I cared about her, but we've been over that...  

And I want you people to know that I'm not utterly heartless when it comes to movies.  I can care about the characters, but none of these people did anything for me, so the movie's dead in the water.  For good counter examples watch "Trainspotting", which has drug-addict characters with enough humor and life to be likable and interesting and "Bubba Ho-Tep", a film which displays the plight of the lonely elderly 50 times better than this film despite being a silly horror-comedy with a mummy in a cowboy outfit in it.  On the other hand, neither of those movies is nearly as pretentious as "Requiem For A Dream", so watching them will do nothing to stroke your ego.  Still, if that's all you want to kinda find plenty of films better than this one for that purpose.  

"Requiem For A Dream" isn't helped any by Darren Aronofsky's repetitive, derivative over-direction.  The trouble is, this movie hasn't got any plot to distract you from how redundant the visual style is.  There's nothing inherently wrong with any of his tactics, but they're hopelessly driven in to the ground, as we see fast-motion a thousand times, quick-cut montages a million times and plenty of wonky camera-attached-to-the-actor junk, and they are, again, impossible not to notice cause the plot sure ain't drawing me in.  I imagine that the overdone, repeating visual style is meant as a representation of the endless cycle found in drug use, but that doesn't make it any more pleasant or entertaining to watch.  The score suffers from the same problem as they use the same handful of themes over and over. 

Truth be told, I thought this movie was pretty okay for about the first half, but then it really started to grate on me.  It became evident that no, Aronofsky wasn't going to introduce any new visual tricks and no, these characters weren't going to get any more interesting.  I looked at the timer continuously for about the last 40 minutes of the film, and was so uninvolved that the supposedly horrifying conclusion where all the characters really get it bad was utterly ineffective.  It was kind of uplifting, really:  Now that these tedious characters have finally hit rock bottom I can go do something else.  Now that's a good ending.

Grade: D+ 

PS This is 500 reviews.  I doubt if I will write 500 more, but who knows
