As part of my ongoing quest to catch up on comic book movies that I have missed over the past few years I came across this clunker. I understand, of course, that I am not the target demographic here. Most comic book fans want nothing more out of their movies than authenticity; unfortunately I was looking for an actual cinematic experience. Four scientists go gallivanting around space with some chump named Dr. Von Doom (who wins the award for the Most Obvious Name for a Villain Ever); they run into trouble and are the recipients of super powers (now we're talking) thanks to some chemical filled cloud. What follows is one of the most shameless attempts to buy a box office victory in history. Special effects pile on top of bad special effects as the film is quickly reduced to nothing more than a dull fireworks show. We get The Thing caving in the front of a semi-truck with his shoulder as the money shot, but it comes in the middle of a scene that left me mystified. An entire bridge and just about every car on it are destroyed by these four farting around with their found powers. But since these are the good guys we have to watch as they scramble to save everybody they endangered, and succeed. Destruction for the fans, no consequences for the characters. But why would director Tim Story try anyways? He knows the people are just showing up to ogle at Jessica Alba as she pretends to act. So instead of focusing on the story he focuses on making sure that those dozens and dozens of product placements make it into the frame. He should have just directed a Pepsi commercial with Jessica Alba and saved us the trouble of watching this mess.

The plot is also outwardly defiant in its interest in being even a little entertaining. Instead of watching good fight evil we are stuck watching the superheroes squabble. They aren't even aware that the bad guy is the bad guy until the last fifteen minutes of the movie. They go out, show off their powers (in things like extreme sports, you know, for the kids), and then yell at each other for not being discreet enough. There is also a lackluster love triangle between Sue Storm (Jessica Alba), Reed Richards (Ioan Gruffudd) and Dr. Von Doom (Julian McMahon). I'm sure it is real nice to believe that someone who looks like Jessica Alba would rather go out with a lowly scientist as opposed to the all powerful, all wealthy Dr. Von Doom. But chances are if you're chasing someone that looks like her she's not interested in your kind demeanor and meaningful career. So why is my rating so high above the zero I've been talking it up to be? Well it is what it is. It didn't put me to sleep as it washes over you fairly harmlessly and quickly. It was fun watching TV actors such as Michael Chiklis and Julian McMahon try their luck at a Hollywood blockbuster. And at least it wasn't "Catwoman." But what it was was insulting. Beyond the obvious point that nobody would believe Jessica Alba as a scientist lies another that shows just how stupid Story thinks we are. At a newsstand, on the cover of People magazine there is a picture of Sue Storm. Now if Stephen Hawkings can't make it to the cover of People then what chance does this two-bit scientist have? **1/4 
