The first was one of the best thrillers ever, with clever suspence, good characters, decent acting and awesome effects.
This one is... meh. Why must you make a sequel to a huge success hit and turn the franchise into a straight-to-video series? What's the bloody point?
Now there are some good parts. The rooms are pretty nice and the musice score is decent, but you know, that doesn't even save it. This movie is a annoying, pointless and downright piece of crap that only kids can easily love. It is so un-intelligent it really makes you wanna puke.
The characters are nothing but cardboard cut-outs. I don't even know them well. All they do is scream, run around in the Cube rooms and cannot keep their mouths shut.
I also really hate the effects in this one as well. They felt like they were over-used. There is even a scene where a guy gets cut into peices and look how badly done it was.
The direction is ok, but when it comes to adding wierdness, it's too much. I don't understand the story, there's a strange sex-scene which a Cube movie does not need. Cube is about suspence. This one is just about adding too much effects, a four-dimensional Cube and trying to make itself look better than the first one. You don't need that stuff. If you wanted to make a sequel better than the first, add something original, don't take itself too seriously and make sure it stays true to the original. But no, you just had to add all this unoiriginal time crap and have alot of special effects taking over and even a sex scene which is not cool because if it's a Cube movie, you don't need nudity.
Overall, if you wanna kill off some time by watching this crap, go ahead. I know you like watching people getting killed in unoriginal ways and watching sex scenes. If you're a fan of Cube, dont' bother.

Acting: 3/10
Ugh, don't get me started. These actors have bad acting skills and I hope they die.

Gore Factor: 4/10
CGI gore?! Come on!?

T&A: 1/10
A Cube movie doesn't need nudity and they don't know that because they don't know Cube.

Direction: 7/10
Andrzej Sekula did have some visual eye in some parts. I did enjoy a few scenes and I dug the rooms, but you know, I can't say he's a great director. He turned the franchise with straight-to-video written all over it.

Bottom Line: If you wanna watch, go ahead, then you'll be sorry.
This movie is just sad. It doesn't try anything to impress you because it's idiotic. Lets hope Andrzej Sekula learned his lesson and should never do a sequel to an impressive indipendent film again
