Mortal Kombat: Annihilation is one of those films that is so bad that it actually HURTS to watch it.
From the nearly complete recast of almost all of the characters (odd, considering that in interviews after the first movie, all of them said they'd want/ be willing to come back for a sequel), to the horrible (even by 1997 standards) CG effects, to the cliched fight scenes (gee...two women in a mud pit.  I bet it took them all night to come up with that one), virtually everything that could have gone wrong with this movie DID go wrong with this movie.
Loosely based on the story of the Mortal Kombat 3 video game (and set immediately after the first movie, which, while not great, looks like Citizen Kane compared to this stinkburger), the movie set about the lofty goal of depicting Shao Khan (played by Brian Thompson, the alien bounty hunter from The X-Files) and his army (shown in most scenes as a small band of extras.  Oooh...scary.) as they attempt to take over Earth by merging it with the alternate dimension known as Outworld.  This merging of realms will result in the destruction of humanity.
With only a week to do anything about it, Lord Raiden (played by James Remar, replacing the, and I can't believe I'm saying this, much better Christopher Lambert in the role) once again enlists the help of Liu Kang (Robin Shou), Sonia Blade (Sandra Hess), and Princess Kitana (Talisa Soto), along with help from a select few other characters from the video games' crowded lineup, to prevent this from happening.
The story in and of itself is not necessarily bad.  However, given the film's obviously low budget the weak screenplay, the loss of most of the excellent cast from the first film, and most jarringly, direction even more inept than that of Paul W.S. Anderson, it quickly becomes clear that they set their sights too high, only to have practically everything come crashing down.
The only saving grace of this film is its killer soundtrack, featuring an updated version of the theme created for the first movie, as well as music by KMFDM, Megadeth, Rammstein, Juno Reactor, and others.
If ever you're looking to punish yourself for something, then by all means watch this movie.  However, if you actually like yourself and want to remain on good terms with yourself, you will avoid this movie like the plague.  Believe me, you'll thank yourself later.
