If there ever was a movie more hyped in 2005 it was "History of Violence" On critics top ten list, everyone was talking about the performances of Viggo and Maria and Ed, so I went into it with high expectations. Honestly it wasn't horrible, but it wasn't worth all the worship that the Hollywood community and critics heaped upon it either. The story of a humble family man in a small town who thwarts two cold blood murderers, only to be visited afterwards by his past in the shape of Ed Harris , who in my opinion had the best performance overall. Ed (Mr. Fogarty) is in the Mob and seems to think that Viggo (Tom) is Joey Cusack a former mobster who went missing after killing his friends and wounding his eye and now he wants revenge. Tom, and his wife Edie (played by Maria Bello) have two children, a farmhouse, and a diner and Tom insist that he isn't Joey. The story goes on, dragging and dragging with tiny spots of violence and sex. Maria Bello has never been one of my favorite actresses, I think her acting ability is a natural as her blonde hair (evidence is in the movie) she brings the level of believability down and makes Viggo's performance seem like he is trying to make up for her lack of talent. We soon figure out that Tom is indeed Joey and after we say goodbye to Ed Harris's character (of which I was just disappointed to see, c'mon he was awesome!) Tom/Joey goes to see his brother, Richie (William Hurt) to make amends for disappearing, and soon realizes that Richie wants him dead. So more killing, more blood, and tom/joey is finally free of his past, if his family would take him back. Of course they do, really, his redemption is yawn worthy set around a dinner table (his daughter sets a place for him...) and the movie is over. There was no Aha moment, the action wasn't anything new, the story was predictable and the setting was "been there done that". Viggo is an amazing actor, and if there had been a better script he might have come across as more tortured and the Tom/Joey duality could have come off as truly horrific to change back into, the shift of reality was barely noticeable. Maria Bello, needs to stop being cast in these dramatic roles where she is some tough, sexy, stringy haired ball breaker who is kinda motherly, it doesn't work for her, she cannot pull it off. So I don't recommend this movie, its slow, its disappointing and its not all it was cracked up to be
