What a disaster. Stay away from this film. I was so disappointed--how could this have won the Academy Award?! The story is rambling and confused, as if the filmmakers couldn't decide what story they wanted to tell. The animation is very average, with the exception of a few striking scenes of natural landscapes. In fact, those all-important "happy feet" of the main character just kind of jerk and slide around a bit. (That's supposed to be tap-dancing? that's supposed to be "animation?") The jokes aren't particularly funny (with the exception of a few moments in the middle where Robin Williams briefly shines). And oddly enough for a film whose central conceit centers on music and dancing, there's not a single original song, or even an inspired remake of any of the songs. Think "Billy Elliot" meets "The March of the Penguins" with some  of Gore's "An Inconvenient Truth" mixed in--without any of the wit, charm, intelligence, passion, or beauty in any of those films. (Did I mention that this film is a disaster?)

Perhaps most annoyingly, like the rest of the story, the underlying political message alternates between cliched, confused, and heavy-handed. The ending is especially unbearable, with its tacked-on feel and absurd psuedo-environmentalist feel-good solution. What a joke! Personally, I consider myself quite liberal and sympathetic to environmentalist positions (I've been a vegetarian for more than 20 years, and a member of Sierra Club and PETA, for example), yet the way this movie presents its misguided message offended me greatly--not least because of the utter inconsistency and incomprehensibility of the message.

One final note for those of you with children: this is not really a kids movie. Most of the jokes won't be understood by children under 15. For kids under 6, all this feeble film offers is some too-scary "Shamus" (orcas), a terrifyingly ferocious sea lion inexplicably made to growl like a dinosaur and given outsized teeth in a deformed mouth, and a jarring ending that suddenly switches to live-action scenes where adults heatedly debate environmental action in such kid-friendly forums as the United Nations! (What the heck?!) After sitting through the entire film to this point, my four-year-old son finally turned to me and quietly said, "This is not a movie for me."  I couldn't have agreed more
