This film starts with an event based on a true crime. A talk radio show host in Denver was killed by an American Nazi. (This event inspired the "Talk Radio" play and film.) This film continues with scenes from a small town in a farming region. No mention of their economic status; are they losing dollars and population, small businesses, etc. Instead we see a small group of white racists who abduct a black man to hunt and kill him! This seems too exaggerated to believe. Federal agents are aware of this but don't want to act yet. Their agent is sent back to get more information. There are groups like that in some sparsely settled areas. The film doesn't explain what created them. It shows how some politicians try to use them for votes and contributions. No real names, of course.

The Federal agent meets to report to her higher ups. Then we see terrorists prepare to hold up a bank to raise money for their activities (based on real events). Most bank robberies are done by ordinary criminals who are not part of any group. (The FBI put an end to organized gangs that robbed banks in the 1940s.) This Federal agency doesn't interfere because they want more information on their aims (and their leaders). More terrorism is planned: dynamiting a courthouse, attacking a power station, etc. The terrorist plots here would keep this small group busy 24 hours a day! Kathy finds a secret list of "friends". This is quickly copied with a camera. The Federal agents need to know who this group will target so they can arrest them. Gary meets with the leader (who arrives in a helicopter!) And shows documents that say Kathy is a special investigator. Is Kathy being served up as a sacrifice? Gary and Kathy travel to Chicago, where an assassination is planned that will make Gary the fall guy. (Another Lee Harvey Oswald?) A second "lone gunman" shoots the politician in front of a building. Gary fails to shoot, and won't ever try this again.

Costa-Gavras gained world fame with his 1969 film "Z". A few years later his film about rebels in South America was popular. His later films have seemed mediocre. A better story might not have tried to cover so many details and plots as this film does; better pacing could help. The threat from domestic terrorism still needs a good film (e.g., Timothy McVeigh). Those who gave this film a high rating must love the images more than the facts.

A better film today would show the bad results from "NAFTA" and "Free Trade" in harming most Americans economically. But Hollywood would never allow a film about this "war on the middle class". The word `nafta' in Greek and Arabic refers to `petroleum'. NAFTA is a symbol for the policies designed for Big Oil. It is like George W. Bush calling his policy "Operation Iraqi Liberation".
