Maybe it's because I had never read the book and never heard of Hunter S. Thompson before this movie, but I found this movie to be unbearably boring and so utterly pointless!

At what point in the movie-making process while reading the script aloud, did they realize that this isn't a movie?  Or maybe that the book couldn't be made into a commercial movie?

The "story" if it can be called such, is apparently about a journalist and his fat hispanic friend (called his lawyer) who go to Las Vegas to write an article on some motorcycle race of some sort or something.  That's completely irrelevant, because probably 5-10 minutes is actually spent on that subject, with an additional 20 minutes at most devoted to the guy actually trying to accomplish the task.

The rest is just Johnny Depp as the main character rambling mindlessly about a variety of subjects, most of which deal with drugs, or drug-related things.  Others having nothing at all to do with anything.  They are quite literally taking every drug known to mankind, and the movie chronicles them taking drugs.

There are some scenes in which the duo are in their hotel room, where the "lawyer" freaks out in a bathtub and threatens to kill himself.  In other scenes, they are in the hotel club, or at a restaurant.  No matter where they are, they are always high on some drug, and Johnny Depp's character (Thompson himself based on his experience, under a fake name) is rambling or talking very very quickly and nonsensically.

There are cameos by minor celebrities, some of which are world famous today.  Gary Busey is on screen for all of three or four minutes as a highway sheriff who sexually harrasses JD's character.  Tobey Maguire is on even less as a hitchhiker who bails out of the car when he realizes the duo are stoned out of their mind and crazy.

The only moment in which I had a great laugh was in the beginning, where they are hallucinating that they are being attacked by bats as they drive down a desert highway.  When the "lawyer" stops to pick up the hitchhiker, JD's char says "We can't stop here!  This is bat country!".  That line and its delivery alone deserve the movie its one miserable star.  I expected better from Terry Gilliam.

If this movie was attempting to be shocking or pro- or anti-drug or stylish or artistic in some way, it is obviously only a most acquired taste, like a group of people who think consuming waste is an acquired taste.  There is no moral message here, nothing pro- or anti-drug, nothing shocking save that these two aren't dead by the third day from taking so many drugs, or stylish or artistic.

Not the worst movie ever, but definitely one of them.  I don't know what orifice people pull this "great movie" idea out of, but I'd like to examine that, and find out why
