Even though I am not a Streisand fan, I was astonished at just how dopey and annoying this movie was.  The plot is supposed to revolve around a big change in appearance for Streisand's character, making her attractive - no, irresistible - to the main male character.  The problem is, she looks almost exactly the same before and after the makeover!  Somebody (probably Streisand) thinks that highlighted hair, a tight black cocktail dress, and a baggy-lipped smirk are irresistible whereas a pink bridesmaid dress, casual clothes, and everyday looks are disgusting. BAAAAAAMP!  (That's the fallacy alarm going off:  men, in my experience, don't care much about clothes and makeup.) 
There was a lot of emphasis placed on the Streisand character's losing weight by riding an exercise bike, but she looked exactly the same afterward - no detectable weight difference!
Yet truly, the low point of the movie is the scene in which Streisand, discussing her baby and early-childhood photos with her mother (played by Lauren Bacall), blubbers, "Wazz I a pretty baby?  WAZZ I A PRETTY BABYYYYEEEE?"  In that one scene, Streisand's neuroticism concerning her looks is fully revealed.  The whole movie is about this issue, and it's amazing that an entire cast, crew, and production company would devote themselves to B.S.'s emotional issues like that.
I really think that the "Funny Girl" phenomenon somehow ruined Streisand's thought processes.  The media buzz about her at the time was that she was kind of cute despite being light-years away from the stereotyped, Northern European beauty standard of the time (think Grace Kelly; think Ingrid Bergman.....).  I recall reading about how her glowing complexion, thick hair, and good figure (as well as her energy and voice) carried her through despite her looks:  long nose, large lips, slanted eyes.  Myself, I think she looks like an Egyptian princess or similar; but she certainly doesn't look like Grace Kelly.....
So why can't she accept this?  The majority of us women, whatever our race, color, or bone-structure, learn to live with and love who we are.....at least I hope we do!  This movie is not about that.  This movie says that you have to have a certain dress and hairdo to be desirable.  
Maybe I should've given it only one star
