I live in Colorado, one of the states that receives emergency funding because the illegal alien situation has gotten so out of hand. This movie is about a town called Farmingville and the disruptions in their lives as they (literally) wake up to find mass groups of illegals outside of their neighborhoods. Some live 20 to a house and have cars coming and going every day-(imagine how that would bring down the resale value on a home?) The aliens surround the streets to hustle for work right out  in the open. The video documents the two sides ( the ones who support, and oppose) the situation. The side that opposes the intrusion into their lives painfully reveals their  exasperation at their own city's inability to instill order and law. As women who go to the neighborhood 7/11 are whistled at, they become nervous ( as a women offered in the video-unfortunetly it was not shown). The thick misogyny in the Mexican aliens was especially disturbing (example: a women who was with a special interest gruop to offer services to the illegal men was unsure whether they would listen to her, as in the Mexican culture). Some create groups in support, others create and claw for order. Eventually a town meeting is called in which one of the women who runs the opposing group is called a rascist by her own politicians as he is flanked by two illegal aliens who nod in agreement.  It is especially poignant to watch as this everday American women  brings the situation to her counsil members. They call her a rascist, and many of the illegal aliens surround this politician in support.It was disturbing to see a foreign lawbreaker have more influence over our politicians than one law-abiding women and her attempts at trying to instill order in her own town.  I don't believe it portrayed the opposing townspeoples side very fairly. They had every right to be exasperated-our we not in a terror war? Since when does Mexicos problems come before our own? 
Maybe because it was made by Carlos Sandaval it was more unobjective. I felt the film more unfairly depicted the opposing (against illegal immigrants) as 'mean' rather than literally mindblown and aggravated their laws weren't being enforced! When does the nations people not have a voice in their own country?
