I love me some Mamet.  His dialogue takes some getting used to, since it is crafted so as to touch on the edges of realism while inhabiting a more stylistic realm.  I also love his dedication to his actors, employing the same ones over and over, so that his movies come off as different shows performed by the same theatrical troupe, which may very well be his point.

However, Edmond is the first Mamet film to leave me disappointed and, worse, annoyed.

Macy plays Edmond with typical wide-eyed aplomb.  Edmond is a man who is weak, but is valiantly (if not clumsily) trying to be strong.  The movie starts with a chance encounter with a fortune teller whose tarot card reading provides a cinematic outline for the remainder of the film.  Edmond then goes home, breaks up with his wife, and goes on a deaf, dumb, and blind search for himself, finding instead over-priced whores, pimps who are not-what-they-seem, and -- generally -- everything but himself.

I get the point: Edmond is the epitome of modern man's emasculation, unable to find his own balls with both hands, and his tawdry and panicked search through New York for some unnameable salvation is an example of the lengths anyone must go (man or woman) to find, if not redemption, then the places where one "belongs."

There are a lot of problems here.  Most superficially, there's one of packaging.  The DVD box prominently features a picture of a gun, and no gun appears in the film.  The tags on the box call the film, alternately, a mystery and a fast-paced thriller, when it is neither one of those things.  Not even close.  This movie is (like most of Mamet's work) based on a play; never before has it been more obvious (unless you count the absolutely brilliant Oleanna).  

Edmond is, essentially, a one-man show, with Macy delivering numbing and rambling monologues, stopped only occasionally to engage in awkward and almost meaningless side action with ancillary characters (some of them played well -- Denise Richards actually shines in her brief scene as a hooker -- and some of them not so well -- Julia Stiles seems over-medicated in her role as an ambivalent and easily persuaded waitress).  In spite of how they do and don't help Edmond make his way through the tunnel of decadence and misery he creates for himself, most of these characters seem disposable, making the movie come across as equally dismissable.  (I would also like to take a moment here to make a small observation about Rebecca Pidgeon, Mamet's wife, an actress who appears, I think, in every single one of her husband's films: this woman is, viewed in even the nicest of lights, one of the worst actresses I've ever seen, and she sucks the life out of every scene she's in.  In this movie she plays Edmond's wife, and does so with heartless and uninspired vehemence.  It's nice that Mamet gives his wife the opportunities he does, but one has to wonder if she'd ever get any acting work at all if she weren't married to such a famous writer/director).

At the risk of spoiling the film, I will say that, at the end, Edmond finally does find where he "belongs," a place that, given his previous struggles, makes a lot of sense (although the manner in which he finds this belonging might offend more than a few viewers).  But this is small consolation since, by this time, few people are likely to have any sympathy for Edmond or where he ends up.  His character's slap-dash personality combined with the persistent and mostly meaningless monologues on fate, fear, destiny and (ironically) meaning make for a benumbing and distasteful cinematic experience.  A few good performances and some nice, visceral cinematography do not save this film from its plot and the dialogue that fails to move that plot along.  Avoid this flick; try Oleanna or Glen Gary Glenross instead.


