Interestingly, this pro-apartheid film was produced and written by Jack Abramoff, now famous for pleading guilty to fraud and tax evasion in the course of orchestating the biggest American congressional corruption scandal in a generation.
Yes the same man who bribed over 60 congressmen and senators, robbed several native american tribes blind, tried to take out life insurance policies on tribal elders with himself as the beneficiary, and called the Choctaw tribal council "Monkeys" and "troglodytes", had an interesting earlier career.   
He was disqualified from the student government election in  his Beverly Hills elementary school for exceeding spending limits.
He took over the young republican movement in college with his schoolmates including Ralph Reed of the Christian Coalition, and longtime republican insider Grover Norquist.  

But more relevant to this movie, well into the 1990's while actively working in the Hollywood film industry he worked both covertly and overtly to support the racist whites only Apartheid Goverment of the old South Africa, and to oppose and discredit Nelson Mandela and the ANC's struggle for majority rule and racial equality.

During this period, he conceived this piece of bizarre propoganda, paid for by the Apartheid government in the old South Africa, equating the struggle for black liberation in South Africa with communism and the Soviet Union, and openly placing his sympathies with the racist minority Afrikkaner government.
The hero of the film is based on the many mercenaries, or so called soldiers of fortune, as they are called in their trade magazine which like the makers of this film, were also enthusiastic about private killers being hired to murder activists fighting against apartheid.

An amazing historical anomoly, this piece has even more significance in the wake of the currently unfolding scandal which promises to be one of the largest in history, involving bribery,favors, protection of sweatshops (in US colonies where women are forced into having abortions), fraud, the chritian coalition, pitting one tribe against another to essentially steal money from native america, and possibly the gangland style murder of his former business partner, the owner of Sun Cruises, when he complained about being defrauded in the sale of his cruise line.

My advice, buy it used for historical purposes, not new.  This guy has made more than enough money off the backs of the American people.   Let's not forget how fear of communism was used to justify murder, racial segregation, perversion of the constitution, police state style abuses of civil rights,  and many other crimes against humanity.  Let's learn the lessons of history and preserve what is good about the USA.  Let this movie be a record of the power of Hollywood to either perpetuate lies that are used to kill and abuse people, or to turn away from evil and tell the truth.  Let's make a different legacy this time around
