First of all, yes, this film was made in Vancouver, with only a few shots of the Manhattan skyline. When Golden Harvest was making this film, they had to try their best to shoot at angles that didn't show any mountains, and they had to paint grafitti each day and unpaint it each night. Then Jackie Chan told them to simply forget all of that and focus on the action.

Well, action was what they focused on the most indeed. It sure is funny to see how the Chinese thought of the United States at this time, because what you see in this film are hippies that drive around in trucks full of beach balls. You also get multi-ethnic gangs trashing places (seriously, the gang has a Native American with pigtails and a frayed jacket! That's almost offensive). You have fat cops that just sit around smoking cigars. You have random, small-crowd rock concerts where everyone is dressed up in animal suits! Bizarre indeed.

As for the actions, this film has some of his best. The first fight scene in the grocery store is supurb, and graceful, using his jacket to dispatch enemies, and endlessly hitting the same guy in the nose over and over. He takes on the entire gang in a back alley before getting cornered, very impressive. This leads to a scene where he's being chased around the streets of New York, where the entire gang, on motor cycles, try to run him over, and Jackie must rely on his ability to run like the wind and climb like a monkey. He also does a dangerous stunt where he jumps from the roof of a parking garage onto a fire escape of another building. No harness or wiresupport! The fight scene at the gang's hideout is also one his best, using whatever object he can get his hands ont, and very acrobatic. Also, Jackie Chan has to cling to a hovercraft while it drives on water and land! Some of this was done on a broken ankle!

If this DVD was uncut and undubbed, and had the original score, I'd give it a total of three stars. Unfortunately, for a so-so film, New Line makes it worse. Some of the dubbing is very bad. It seems as if New Line dubbed some of the original English dialouge also. Only very, very little of the original Cantonese dialouge is there. Also, the film's original score has been redone to a more orchestrated score with slight rock. Many, many scenes were cut from the original movie. Not only that, but some of the action scenes were cut too. 

Try and find an uncut version out there. This DVD you should stay away from
