 If you believe in the Devil, and I mean *really* believe in the devil, I can't think of one good reason why you'd want to summon the Devil into this world. At worst, he's purported to be the father of lies, and one of the fallen angels. This means that anything he tells you is suspect, anything he gives you is suspect, and he probably has the power to make you believe in him. Yikes. Not a safe trip. Not a terribly sane trip, for that matter.

Yet that is precisely what Boris Balkan (Frank Langella) desired. He had one copy of "The Nine Gates of the Kingdom of Shadow", and there were three extant. One or all of these books is a forgery, and one or all holds the secret to summoning Satan. He hires Corso (played a bit too understated by Johnny Depp) to research the other texts.

The movie is based on the novel "The Club Dumas" by Arturo Perez Reverte, which I favorably reviewed.

I can't give a similar review to The Ninth Gate for a number of reasons. First, Depp's portrayal of Corso was one dimensional, and Corso was a multi-dimensional character. Whether that's the filmmaker's fault or Depp's I don't know, but Depp's Corso was a dreadful bore.

A mysterious girl appeared and became an ally of his, demonstrating supernatural abilities. We are never given ample evidence as to why she might have had an interest in helping Corso, or in what her abilities might have been (never mind her identity). Yet since this is a character from the book, I know why she was there, I have a pretty good idea who she was (and good job to the author on how he handled that!) and her character's interests and abilities could have been better communicated, with very little difficulty.

Also, in a rather silly departure from the book (departures are fine...I'm not being a book snob), they substitute an average sized platinum-blonde haired black male for a character in the book who was tall, white, and physically imposing. There's nothing that irritates me more than a "quota substitute". I don't think this particular sub had any speaking lines, which makes it that much more of an insult.

I love intelligent thrillers. (I didn't care for The Da Vinci Code.) This was a thriller that spent time in libraries, that examined woodcuttings drawn, perhaps, by Lucifer himself - yet I wasn't engaged.

In 1999, when the film was released, I couldn't sit through it. After reading The Club Dumas and then discovering that there was a connection between the two, I approached the film again, hoping that understanding where the book was coming from would help. It did not. In fact, it raised more questions.

I would give this movie 2.5 stars and round it up to 3; however, I'm reviewing the DVD and the DVD gets a big spanking for not having subtitles. There's no excuse, in this day and age, for a mainstream DVD not to offer subtitles.
