That's all I could think of when my family and I sat down to watch this movie together.  We had told the story to our children about the miraculous staircase built without nails in a small chapel in Santa Fe.  The story itself is so powerful and moving. Built in the 1870s, the chapel was nearly complete when it became apparent the choir loft stairs would not fit. The sisters' prayed a novena to St. Joseph and on the ninth day their prayers were answered when a mysterious carpenter arrived, built the "miraculous" staircase, and then disappeared without being paid. The staircase is a double helix with no visible support. It's 23 feet tall and makes two 360 degree spirals, and the wood used is not a known wood in any area near Santa Fee!

This movie however is about a mother superior who has faith but harbors real resentment towards Indians and also likes to curse (how this has anything to do with the actual story I still have no idea!).  At one point when a nun is "shocked" to hear mother curse mother surperior responds "Oh Margret get off the cross and get down here with the rest of us".  When the mysterious carpenter shows up and starts to build the staircase, the architect and the contractor decide that this is a bad thing and threaten to kill the carpenter.  Meanwhile this carpenter who is sent by "God" builds the staircase with wood that doesn't work, is arrested after being falsly accused of attempted murder, and leaves everyone to believe vandalls destroyed the staircase when in fact he originally destroyed it before rebuilding it better.  In the end the staircase is built and this mother superior (who is on death's door) is so moved that she literally crawls up the staircase in a very "weird"/"uncomfortable" scene until she reaches the choir loft and dies.  Wow, inspiring.
The best thing I could think of is this director and writer took a wonderful and moving story and turned it into a Hollywood flop. This was obviously written, directed, and produced by people who have no idea how the staircase was built but are pretty darn sure it wasn't a miracle because hey, miracles just don't happen. The acting was pretty good but the story was junk.  Unfortunately I bought this movie.  

If you are looking for a true inspirational movie that you can watch with your family, rent or buy Mother Theresa with Olivia Hussey.  Hands down the best Saints movie every filmed.  Half way through the movie my 5 year old says out loud "Wow, she REALLY cares about everybody!"  Inspirational movie, compared to this disappointment
