The American Dream is an appealing myth, no doubt. The idea that anybody can come from anywhere and strike it rich in America sounds great. The problem, as George Carlin put it, is that you have to be asleep to believe in it. So instead of representing opportunity for everybody it has become code for greed at all costs. And that is where "Belly" comes in, an ode to thug live and all the riches that come with it. This urban drama stars DMX (perpetually rapping), Nas, and Method Man and they would have you believe that they earned their cash by selling drugs and pimping as opposed to selling out to record companies. The story barely exists and seemed like a burden for the director who just wanted endless shots of people having sex and smoking drugs. When the plot does poke its head up I picked up on a criminal enterprise that moved shop from Queens to Omaha. Once there the cops get involved and people start getting shot. One couple tries to escape to Africa, but find it easier said than done. And Tommy (DMX) is sent on a mission to kill a minister. But really this film is about selling a lifestyle that doesn't even exist. Come on now, I've known drug dealers in my day, and they didn't live in large gaudy mansions . . . rap stars do. Rather they live in shacks or their parent's basement. 

If my response to the film seems lukewarm it is because it is. The directing by Hype Williams isn't that bad. He is able to capture some beautiful images and uses a few creative camera tricks. The lighting never seems quite right, but I'm gonna let that one slide. As a man who has always called for more sex and drugs in films I can hardly complain about their presence here. There people are living life to the fullest and are certainly not being weighed down by bourgeois conventions. All that said this film still fully deserves the big no vote that I am going to give it. As the most nihilistic person I know I am surprised to report that this one really seemed lost. Any image they could flash on the screen that would appeal to the wannabes in the audience was used. The N and F words are used to comedic proportions. Their palaces that represent their gluttony are turned into war zones and destroyed for no good reason. And then, on top of it all, we have to listen to the characters wax philosophical on how leading this life somehow places them on a higher plain than the rest of us. Sorry man, but just because you sell drugs instead of stocks doesn't make you any less slimy than those Wall Street hacks. You're still a businessman. This film is not worth watching. Any social point that is made is made accidentally, and any filmmaking skills the director may have are lost under his love fest for all things gangsta. **1/4
