Equilibrium is a curate's egg - its best parts are not good throughout, and its worst aspects make erratic appearances. The acting is really the least of its problems; the cardinal failure was a script that could not decide what kind of movie it wanted to be when it grew up.  

Equilibrium, however poorly, aspires to be a dystopian film, and there exists a dystopian formula at work in fiction and film alike. Such a formula was employed magnificently in Michael Radford's adaptation of George Orwell's 1984. Contrarily, films imperil themselves in discarding the formula as evidenced by Alfonso Cuaron's junky adaptation of P.D. James' The Children of Men. There are essentially three parts to this formula. First, there must be a depiction of a believable society, and plausible justifications for its existence. The author or script writer must paint vividly, yet remain nuanced, since at this stage his purpose is to show the reader or viewer, without yet telling him the philosophy underlying it. Second, two-thirds of the way through there must be a conversation between protagonist and antagonist, which formally unveils the ethical dilemma. Here, the protagonist offers his alternative, usually an acknowledgement of the humane. Third, the dystopian resolution lies in the protagonist's choice: he must surrender to the system, rebel against it, or be conquered by it. The ending, if it is not tragic in the classical sense, must be ambiguous; if it is ended happily, it is no longer a matter for the reader or viewers' thoughts: the problem has been resolved, and he may retire from it and become forgetful of it. 

Libria, the society depicted in Equilibrium, is a post-apocalyptic society wherein feeling has been criminalized under the pretext that human feelings, and the actions carried out on their behalf, represent the fons et origio of man's inhumanity to man. The objective of outlawing sentiments is the preservation of peace. Is this believable? Ultimately, it is not because the viewer is given no other reason for this society to exist, no justification for its brutality except that it is by this method alone that peace may be preserved. However, a desire for peace is predicated on an aversion to war, and aversion is something we principally feel. A more believable premise would have been the prohibition of certain feelings, but it is also unbelievable because it is inconsistent. The protagonist (John Preston, a member of the Grammaton Cleric, an elite government agency for enforcing laws against so-called `sense-crimes') marries, begets children, hesitates in killing his partner - what point would there be in any of this in a society that had eliminated feeling? And, if we are being generous, and suppose that this was done intentionally so as to say, "You can never entirely eliminate feeling," it fails still; because if the denizens of Libria weren't completely devoid of feeling, they couldn't be as cowed as they are depicted. Instead, countless times throughout the film characters make comments, statements, enquiries that can only have as their possible source or response an emotion. To have had characters who were truly apathetic, or for whom the fictitious drug Prozium was effective, they would have had more in common with Star Trek's Borg. The backdrop for this dystopia, then, lacks subtlety or nuance. From the first fifteen seconds of film, the viewer ethically objects - it remains tediously Manichean throughout. The viewer is given a straw man and immediately begins tearing it down and the only suspense is literally in waiting for what we know will happen.

In Brave New World, it is Mustapha Mond's conversation with John the Savage. In 1984, it is O'Brien's talk with Winston Smith. In The Children of Men, it is a debate between Theo and the Xan. In Equilibrium, the formal unveiling of the ethical dilemma happens in a haphazard way throughout, culminating in a fight scene that lacks the awe inspired by the Matrix three years before. Here was the moment for the "talky" bit of the film, the sophisticated counter-punch, the moral awakening, the vindication of the human; instead, the viewer is given another low-brow, Hollywood denouement. John Preston does nothing to justify his alternative to the totalitarian status quo - there is no bit of dialogue with Father where lines are spoken which conveys the notion that "Feelings are essential to thought," or that "peace has been obtained at a terrible price." All the loose ends, littered liberally throughout the film, are never addressed: Why have art in Libria? Why does Father intonate, and raise the pitch of his voice to manipulate the masses in a scene reminiscent of a Leni Riefenstahl propaganda film? A better film would have acknowledged these scenes, and defended their inclusion in a climatic dialogue between John Preston and Father (or DuPont as it turns out). 

The conclusion of Equilibrium can be summarized as follows: "Good guy kills bad guys, sixty-second revolution ensues, people can feel again, hero smiles, time to go to bed." There wasn't ever a genuine ethical dilemma anyway: what was wrong was obviously wrong, and what was right was intuitively right. The viewer never believed the reasons Libria came to be, or at least they never found them plausible in the way they found Huxley's, Orwell's, James', Zamyatin's, or Koestler's explanations. In Equilibrium it was all simply the soft groundwork prepared for the banal, unoriginal action movie to follow. The plot, then, was in some respects as shallow as the tendentious storylines in soft-core porn films: they needn't be sensical because no one is interested in the story, but rather for the titillation, arousal, and amusement. Many viewers of Equilibrium are fans of flashy action sequences (a majority of whom were not disappointed as their reviews attest); but for those seeking a fuller cinematic experience, Equilibrium is an unfortunate disappointment. During the film a woman asks Preston, "Why are you alive?" Preston responds with the bureaucratically sterile answer, "I'm alive to safeguard the continuity of this great society. To serve Libria." "It's circular. You exist to continue your existence. What's the point?" she asks. And, what's the point is exactly the point about this film.  
