Ok, check it out, there's two Jack Blacks. One is the guy from Tenacious D, you see him all the time. He's funny and childish and insane. Then there's the other Jack Black. He's the evil creature who pervades films like Shallow Hal and King Kong, whose only humorous lines are the ones that are funny by accident. Well, as long as you aren't fat and don't feel patronized by Gweneth presuming to know what it's like not to be desired all her life (ha), then by all means suspend all disbelief, logic, and brain power and watch this dumb movie. Gweneth's fat suit is actually pretty convincing, although most of the movie she's played by an actual fat chick...who by the way should have just been left in, without the whole "ha ha the dude thinks she's skinny" nonsense. Obviously, a film about a dude trying to cope with dating a big girl would have a lot more resonance if:
a) He weren't brainwashed
b) His fat girlfriend wasn't replaced by a twiggy blond chick 
c) The movie didn't throw ridiculous concepts your way (like a guy could have sex with a 300 lb woman without realizing it)
d) Tony Robbins was in no way involved whatsoever

I knew I was slumming it when I saw this movie.  But I'm not sure what the message of this film is.  Jack Black's character is decent, considerate, great with kids and perfect in every way.  Oh, except he's really shallow for no dicernable reason, other than his dad's dying words were for him to go out and chase tail.  The weird part is that Hal's not a bad person.  The movie beats you over the head showing you he's the nicest guy on on the face of the Earth, so you can't really laugh at him looking like an idiot.  Rosemary is so fat she has superpowers.  Her butt actually creates typhoons (I wonder if that has military applications?).  Suddenly, Hal mistakes ugly pimply girls for supermodels and evil skanks for old shrews.  Tony Robbins brainwashed him, the fiend! When Hal finally realizes this he decides to (ooh big spoiler) love Rosemary anyway, and learns a VALUBLE LESSON.  Along the way there are a ton of cliches like people thinking he's dating Rosemary just because her dad happens to be his boss, and a sexy neighbor in his building who starts to get the hots for him when she sees how non-judgemental he is dating a fat girl ('cause that would make any woman melt).  Of course there's requisite best friend, played by Jason Alexander, who is repulsed by fat people and plots to get Hal to dump her.  Then again, the friend is a complete troll, so I don't know why Hal would want him around.  And to insult us further, they force some burned kids on us at the hospital to strike a SERIOUS note about how true beauty is on the inside. Too...many...public...service...messages! PICK...ONE..!! 

But brain-dead writing aside, Paltrow really sells her performance when they actually show her in the fat suit (despite Gweneth's postering when this film was first released). Regardless of its clumsy benevolence, I have to rate this as a romantic comedy. And for that, I give it a rating of totally unremarkable. Nice gesture, Farelly brothers. Not to be bothered with
