*No Spoilers*
We had enough of lame Japanese films. This new "wave" of horror movies like "The Ring," "Pulse" and now "The Grudge 2" doesn't seem to have an end. The genre is played out but that didn't stop the producers from creating this sequel which is a sad and incomprehensible follow-up of the decent 2004 first version. To understand this film--which is nearly impossible until the end--you would have to see the first movie.

Brief Story:
The film has basically three plots, but in a way they are connected to each other. The first plot is a follow-up of what happened to Karen Davis (Sara Michele Gellar) who barely survived the ghosts of the haunted house. Mrs. Davis (Joanna Cassidy) asks her other daughter Aubrey to investigate what happened to her sister Karen. She travels to Japan to bring Sara home. Now in Japan, she finds her in the hospital very paranoid about the ghosts of the house, but something terrible is about to happen.

The second plot is about three school girls who visit the haunted house. One of the girls has to go to the closet for some kind of initiation that we don't know about. Suddenly the girl sees the ghost of the child. She tries to get out but the door jammed. They all panic and leave the girl in the closet with the ghost. Unfortunately, they are about to find out the hard way that the place was not to be visited. 

The third plot takes place in the US where a new family moves to an old building. A young kid suddenly notices that the building is haunted and the "strange lady" that lives next door has something to do with it. People are starting to act weird in this building because of the evil presence. 

Review:
Less scary and sillier than the original, "The Grudge 2" takes you to a boring and confusion movie experience. The movie suffers from too many plots that confuse the audience rather than scare them. We have to wait until the end to find out how everything relates to each other. This time around the ghosts are outsourcing from Japan to the US. They don't care whether you visit the house or not. Now these menaces are getting medieval to people for no apparent reason. These ghosts behave now like viruses that will haunt and kill whoever is on their way--even a young little boy--just to show their rage. The so-called scary moments are not scary at all. They are lame, mechanical and cheap imitations of the original 2004 first version. What's sad is that, this time around, the writers have to make the actresses show some "skin" to please the male teen audience. This is what the filmmakers have to use to get some kind of momentum going for this movie.

In the technical department the movie doesn't do a good job either. The editing is very sloppy and extremely confusion. We have three plots that are poorly mixed together. Sometimes we are in Japan and sometimes the ghosts are outsourcing in the US. The photography of the film is identical to its predecessor, but that's the only thing that resemblances the original. In the sound department, the movie will make you laugh. We hear sillier noises than the original. Instead of getting scared, you might laugh at the sounds these ghosts make--We personally like the angry "kitty" sound.

The Verdict:
A terrible sequel of a decent horror film, "The Grudge 2" could have been a straight-to-video release if it wasn't for the beautiful Sara Michelle Gellar. No scary moments but many funny ones--unintentionally, of course.

