Apologies to those of you who seem to actually like this film, but when I re-watched it recently after not having seen it in ten years or so, I found it to be . . . well, nearly unwatchable.

What's so bad about it?  Well, how shall I begin . . .

(1)  Sean Connery is a dud.  There can be very little doubt that Connery is THE James Bond, but here, he seems like he's just going through the motions.  To be fair, he had no decent material to play.  The only positives in the performance are the small little touches he puts in to show that he is playing an aging 007; he seems suitably worn-out at various points, and that adds a tiny layer of believability to the character that has never been there before.  But these are grace notes; by and large, Connery is stiff as a board here.
(2)  The action scenes are uninspiring.  I'm not the biggest fan of the Roger Moore Bond films, but even the worst of them have terrific action scenes.  Here, the action is strictly second-rate.
(3)  Kim Basinger and Barbara Carrera, though great to look at, give terrible performances.
(4)  There is literally no reason to see this in favor of "Thunderball," of which it is a remake; the original remains one of the all-time great screen entertainments, and this remake makes ZERO improvements.  In fact, the plot merely becomes muddled.
(5)  There are a series of awful performances in supporting roles.  Rowan Atkinson's comic scenes, though brief, are painfully unfunny, not to mention out of place.  The actor playing the "new" M is odious; and whoever it is playing Q isn't very good, either.
(6)  The music is bad.  The title song is boring, and the score by Michel Legrand frequently sounds as if it came from a Bugs Bunny cartoon.  I couldn't care less that the James Bond theme is missing; it's not what isn't there that's bad, it's what IS there.


All in all, I'd have to say that -- unless we're counting the 1967 version of "Casino Royale" -- this is THE worst of the James Bond movies.  It's worth seeing if you've never seen it before . . . but that's about it, in my opinion
