The Decalogue is one of several excellent TV series by European directors that puts US TV to shame. Like Bergman's "Scenes from a Marriage" & "Fanny & Alexander," von Trier's "The Kingdom," Fassbinder's "Berlin Alexanderplatz," Kusturica's "Underground," and Petersen's "Das Boot," The Decalogue was initially conceived as a series on television and eventually brought to US viewers' attention on the large screen via a limited art house run. Unlike these other series, Kieslowski's was conceived as ten separate stories that were only tied together by the fact that the stories all involved people in the same housing block (and characters from one episode may pop up in another).  The stories of The Dekalog are morality plays, but they are not re-enactments of The Ten Commandments, but rather inspired by them, and ultimately it is left to the viewer to decide the connection between the two.  Kieslowski & Piesiewicz wrote the ten screenplays and decided to do the 10 stories themselves (instead of contracting 10 of Poland's best up & coming director's to do each, as was initially planned), and instead hired a different cinematographer for each of the stories.  I won't comment on the content of the stories as many have already done so, and I feel that that would minimizes the impact of the experience of watching them, so I will comment on Kieslowski's style. Kieslowski has stated that his intent is to highlight personal consequences of a dramatic nature.  His films often tackle issues of political import, however he intentionally avoids making "issue films," but rather focuses on the personal consequences of those affected, as he feels that politics solves nothing & that films do not really change the political culture. His views on film stem from his experience as a director who stayed in Poland before, during & after the Solidarity movement. Initially he started as a documentary film maker, but as he saw that audiences were more interested in fiction and that documentary film-making has an impact on the lives of its subjects, he switched to his unique fictional style. 

This Facets 3-disc set of The Dekalog is apparently an improvement over the 2-disc version previously available, in that the picture quality is a little better, however it is still a far cry from what it could have been if Criterion had released this series. First, Facets has a mandatory ad for itself that automatically plays when you insert a disc & you have to let it play out before you can get to the menu. To add to that, you also have to watch another ad each and every time you select an episode to watch & after the end of each episode, very annoying. Then the picture quality isn't as good as it could be. Not only is there evidence of flaws in the film (scratches and blotches), but the film isn't a true digital copy of the original series, but rather a copy of someone's PAL tape of the broadcast, so the image is no better than watching a VHS tape.  The picture is also cropped from the original, especially on the bottom. The picture at times jitters, especially during the ending credits. The English subtitles are minimal, at times missing dialogue, and can not be turned off. There are some nice extra features, particularly a broadcast from Polish television of an interview of Kieslowski with a number of Polish journalists. However the quality of the picture of this is worse than on The Dekalog, and the entire dialogue is spoken over by people in English with no option to turn of the English dub & use subtitles instead. Apparently all of the other (imported) editions of The Dekalog are of better quality & offer more extras than this edition, which is inexcusable given the price
