Melanie Griffith, Rachel Leigh Cook, and Hugh Dancy star in this straight-to-video film about one female transporter, who gets into trouble because of someone plotting against her.  Well, that's all about it, apparently, but the film tries to give something unique to the otherwise unoriginal plot.

I mean, the slightly original character of Sarah by Melanie Griffth, who plays that smuggler in trouble.  Given a special job by Malcom McDowell with his customary 'I-could-be-very-baaaad' smile, Sarah agrees to carry a pack hidden in her bag.  But as you know, someone also wants that package, and ... well, that's nothing new, but she is attacked on the way.

DON'T EXPECT ANY THRILLER, however.  The film's focus is not about that; it is the relations about Sarah and Jack (Dancy) who live together in a fancy Paris apartment.  But while Sarah is away from Paris on business, Jack is attracted to a younger lady Jenny (Cook) who also falls for him.  

Thus the film makes an effort to include both love and crime.  Nice try, considering this interesting point about the character of elder lady Sarah, but if the factor is taken away from the film, the end result is nothing but a flat, tired suspence -- suspence as to its relations and its crimes alike.  Either way, the film is emotilnally very void.

OK. two fatally bad things: one, too incredible characters.  See, Sarah is a professional courier who must know the rules of the job, which could be dangerous.  But instead of renting a car (and it's Europe, where that could be pretty easy),  she takes a train (and a night train!) in which she becomes an  easy target.  In this way, the film misses every chance to make it more suspenceful.  When some character(s) must die, they die like characters in old video games -- they fall, that's all.      

The other one; acting.  Let me be honest.  It was painful to watch the one-dimentional performance of Melanie Griffith, who was very good in 'Another Day in Paradise.'  Maybe she is not the greatest actor, but certainly she can act.  But as far as 'Tempo' is concerned, no, I don't think so.

Only the location of Paris saves this film from utter forgettableness.  Forget about this one.                  
