If you've read the book this movies is EXTREMELY loosely based on, you will understand why the movie is so horrid. It's beautiful to look at, but that is all. The sets and costumes are gorgeous, but it looks more like a bunch of kids playing dress up than a film about a Queen of France. This movie completely ignores the Revolution, Marie Antoinette's arrest, and murder. In short, the movie ignores anything that is not pretty, girlish, and light. 

There is so much fluff and teen angst that it's hard to locate any fact in the film at all. Do we really need a 10 close-up of Kristen Dunst wistfully lazing about her apartments after she meets a handsome man? Even one scene like this is bad enough, but it happens over and over. We see kids at play more than adults with real problems, and the actors and soundtrack only reinforce this feeling. There is shopping, food, dress up, and flirting, but minus a handful of very short scenes, no real account of the lives of the King and Queen of France.

 There was little in the way of dialog, and sadly much of what there was was murmured while Dunst flounced around in her pretty dresses. There is so much historical inaccuracy in the film that it's almost pointless to try to listen to the dialog. For instance, the Dauphin and 2 brothers, which we are told in the book the film is "based" on. However, in the film, the brothers are combined into one, very inaccurate character. Marie Antoinette also had 2 sons, not one as the movie will tell you. I don't mind some changes for the sake of drama, but ignoring 90% of a historical account and then insisting that your movie is factual is ridiculous. 

The main actors are also terrible. The supporting cast, such as Rip Torn, and Marriane Faithful, is wonderful. They only serve to make Kirsten Dunst look that much worse. No one bother to act French, or like the poised rulers-in-training that their character were. The movie is so obviously a veichle for Dunst that it's sickening. There is just too much of her on the screen with not nearly enough reason for her to be there. Remember the 10 minute scene I described where she does nothing but smile? It keeps happening. It gets very, very old. It feels more like a photo shoot for Dunst than a film. I usually like Kirsten Dunst, but not in this film. 

Overall, the film looks and feels more like a music video and should have been one. There just isn't enough going on to warrent the film's length, and it's really geared towards young girls who love pretty dresses, food, and shopping, but have no taste for fact. It's a chick flick at it's worst, and it makes a mockery of the life of such an important person. It's very hard to believe that this came from the same person who wrote and directed films like "The Virgin Suicides" and "Lost in Translation"
