This movie ended where Tyrese Gibson and Meagan Good meet up again in Mexico.  But heck, they are both fugitives hiding from the law.  How is this a proper happy ending?  

Although, I will admit, Meagan Good is a fine looking young lady.  Just knowing that she was in this film, got me to want to watch it.

However, I don't understand the appeal of these kinds of films.  Violent "black/gangsta" films with lots of foul language, gun-play, and just bad tempered attitudes.  Even that music sounds like it would stir up hatred and provoke violence and harm to anyone just passing by.  I wish people would get rid of that "What are you looking at?" mentality that just seems to encourage fear to innocent people just passing by.

My wife is asian, and her older sister married an Hispanic guy.  We go to their house every Thanksgiving and Christmas.  Nothing makes my holidays more depressing than to have to go over to his house and have to watch these violent "gangsta" movies, with his kids.   I'm trying to teach my kids to not have any prejudices of other races, but these kinds of films make the black race look bad. There wasn't very many positive messages in this movie. 

And if black people are so offended by the use of the "N" word, then why do they keep using it themselves?   If it's such an offensive term, then they need to stop using it themselves.  These kinds of movies promote and glorify the ugly side of being black in the "big city".  Black people need to do more movies with more "positive" themes.  

We gotta work together if we're going to diminish our black and white prejudices.  I wish my brother-in-law would stop having this kind of crap on his TV when I have my children over.   It's hard to talk to him about it, especially when he thinks there is nothing wrong with our kids watching these kinds of films.  What's more, it's hard to reason with someone that has to use the "F" word in every sentence.

I'm really beginning to struggle with my prejudices within my own family.
