As a fan of zombie movies and as someone who enjoyed City of the Living Dead and Zombie, I was very disappointed with House by the Cemetery. Fulci manages to create a good mystery in the first two-thirds of the movie, only to squander it on some poorly executed scare scenes.

House By the Cemetery is about an researcher (whose work is never specified) who moves his wife and his kid into a house in Massachussets in order to finish out the work of a colleague who killed himself and his mistress. The titular house is the only place they can really find for the moment, so Dr. Boyle, his wife Lucy and their son Bob move in despite a lot of bad signs, like the boarded-up door to the cellar and a tombstone for a Dr. Jacob Tess Freudstein in the front hall. Bob has little red-headed girl for a friend who keeps warning him about how bad the house is (though no one else sees her). Furthermore, people keep claiming Dr. Boyle has been in town before with a non-existent daughter (which he denies, not totally convincingly). He also seems to have some secret relationship with the babysitter, Anne, who starts unboarding the cellar door in the middle of the night. And Lucy seems to either be recovering from or suffering from serious psychological issues. 

Got that? Good, because half of that stuff never gets explained. The only things that get worked out are the little red-headed girl's identity and the identity of the killer (neither of which are that hard to figure out). There are some nice visual moments in the earlier parts of the film (the fact that the killer has one normal hand and one rotting hand, the photograph that changes with each viewing, a mannequin that gets beheaded and starts bleeding) but Fulci's ability to handle the gore moments disappoints. He lingers too long over some deaths, makes the killer so ridiculously slow that a snail could outrun him and bits like the babysitter's head falling down the stairs come off as funny rather than scary. Compared to the injury to the eye scene in Zombie or Christopher George chopping through the coffin in CotLD, Dr. Boyle's chopping through the door around his son's head feels like self-parody.

Fulci's other films have incoherent plots , but rarely in a way that seems to work against the plot (the dream-like nature of City of the Living Dead seems appropriate given the prophetic dream the heroine gets and the mystical nature of the threat) and the execution of the setpieces is usually fantastic. House by the Cemetery has neither thing working in its favor. It's not Hell of the Living Dead-level bad, but the fact that it has some genuinely good acting (especially Paolo Malco, who plays Dr. Boyle) and an interesting set-up almost make the flaws worse.

Also, this version has a "never before seen deleted scene", but it has no sound and is just an extended reaction shot after the bat attack
