I was surprised that so many people childishly attacked the person who gave this movie one-star. Someone even accused them of not being young at heart. Well, I don't like this film, and I'm young at heart; I'm just not immature, so try not to confuse the two. Some of you need to check your spelling before accusing someone else of bad writing. Having said that, on to the film: 

Julie and friends are simply DYING to be included in the in-crowd their first year of high school, so on the night Julie has a sleepover, they make a deal with some rival girls to go on a "scavenger" hunt, which is basically one huge dare game. The group that fulfills the dares first get to be popular by... (drumroll, please) sitting at The Popular Lunch Spot. That is, a picnic bench by the school fountain. That's right; popularity is not guaranteed by WHO you sit with, but WHERE you sit. Pick the right spot, and you may just magically become Queen Bee for the rest of the year. In case you couldn't tell by my sarcasm, the shallow impracticality of this film truly bugs me at times. We all know the whole popularity thing is practically a tradition for teen chick-flicks, but this film tended to go over the top with a lot of it. Granted, a lot of the exaggerated silliness worked for the film; in fact, the movie's beginning surprised me with many clever and well-written clips. However, there is such a thing as going too far. 

The movie becomes absolutely dedicated to making teen girls look like sassy but fashionably ingenuis bimbos and making teen boys look like...well, the dumbest, scruffiest beings that ever stumbled on the planet. Not that all the boys are like this, mind you; there are a few of the god-like types that the girls practically kill themselves for. It got worse, however, when the film attempted to fit in a few serious scenes. If the movie had stuck to pure sarcastic silliness the whole time, it might've worked. Instead,the few attempts to be serious usually fell flat on their faces because the seriousness went in the wrong direction. For example, there was the nauseating scene where poor beaten Julie nearly gives up her scavenger hunt and one of her friends says, "Julie, I KNOW you can do this; I believe in you" in a tone which implies that they're talking about a major life crisis instead of a juvenile daredevil game. 

The worst "serious" scene, however, is when Julie attempts to get into a dance (therefore fulfilling the final dare) and the ticket seller won't let her in because she doesn't have a ticket. Suddenly inspired, Julie gives the ticket seller a sickening "I know who you are" speech, telling her that she knows she was a nerd her whole high school life and that now, because of her former nerdiness, she's become a poor ticket seller. Julie ends her speech by wailing, "I can see myself being you in four years if I don't go to this dance!"  The ticket seller leaps to her feet but, instead of punching Julie, suddenly breaks into a smile and says, "Go ahead and go in!" Um, WHAT?? Whatever happened to the girls finding out that popularity isn't everything after all and actually getting lives and acting like humans? (Not to mention that nice sock in the mouth I was hoping Julie would get). Is this what we want to teach our kids, that being dedicated to work makes them nerds and that partying all the time will get them somewhere in life? I personally think the "nerds" are far better off than the girls who lose their virginity on the first date and party all year rather than learn anything. It was this scene and this message that seriously lowered the film in my opinion. I'm not sure why the filmmakers decided to end the film with this childish message. Maybe they did it on a dare because the popular filmmakers finally offered them a cool lunch spot in exchange. I recommend "Never been Kissed" and "Mean Girls" far more than this film; they have good moral lessons as well as intelligent humor. 

Oh, before I finish, here's one more valuable lesson from this film: Girls, if you want to win a guy who's never noticed you, all you have to do is strike a cool pose, hop on a skateboard, and ride it directly in front of his car. (Don't forget to wear an expensive dress and look flawless while you're at it). Do this, and he will be so in love with you that he won't even care if you tell him that you did something freakish like stealing his underwear. The things we learn from movies, huh?                                                 
