this is a ridiculous overkill of two fascinating characters in the 'lonesome dove'. the whole 2 dvds were just a bunch of idiots kept blabbering, small talking, yammering, blah, blah, blah from the first second to the last minute, just like mcmurty's novels, all the characters were just kept talking, talking, talking in meaningless small talks, almost talked your ears off. it's so controversial and contradictory to those two characters first appeared in 'lonesome dove', gus talked and talked, but call never talked like what was protrayed in this pathetic 'dead man's walk' and the 'comanchi moon', the more logic one is the real sequel, 'the street of loredo', at least gus was dead, and call remained not just silent but more quiet. by watching this horrible movie adaptation from the original book, scripted by the author, the whole movie was doomed to be horrible. because mcmurty simply couldn't omitted those yammering spread all over his original novel, page after page, blah, blah, blah, and we have to find the storyline among those conversations, dialogs, and dug them out of those garbage-like paragraphs. watching this movie was no different. those idiotic morons never kept their mouths shut. blabbering day and night, even during the comanchi attacks. what call showed in this movie and the novel could never developed into a character like what he had become in 'lonesome dove'. because from the very beginning, everybody just quacked and quacked like a school of chickens. drive me nuts. how come these two young characters portrayed in this blabbering novel would and could have developed into the profound older characters in the 'lonesome dove'? once a moron, a coward, an idiot, always would be a one, no matter how old you have become. adding experiences and sophistication in the aging process never happened to a moron, coward or an idiot. how could these two jokes would have survived in that harsh environment is simply beyond me. at least the 'lonesome dove' movie adaptation was  close to what the novel read like. and 'the street of loredo' movie was also an adaptations from the novel
