A French saying goes: "The more things change, the more they stay the same."  It appears that the "historical" epic film of yesteryear is still much like that of today in that "poetic" license is taken to the extreme in passing outright lies and fabrications as truth.  One of the things that really turned my stomach watching this is D W Griffith's emphasis at least twice during the film that he did not intend to offend any race but wanted to show historical events and yet goes on to portray outright falsehoods as truth.  

Firstly, we all know that this Cameron dude did not start the KKK and that this organisation has its roots in Indiana and not South Carolina.  Secondly, the KKK is not the defender of the South and there is no need to "purify" the race as is portrayed here the exact words used by D W is "preserve the Aryan race."  Modern science, using cutting edge DNA research has already proved that we all come from the same African man about 60,000 years ago and so any racial distinctions are not only ethically wrong but factually wrong as well.  Like it or not, we are all related and separated only by about 2000 generations despite our seemingly outward physical differences and have a common ancestor.  Some of the portrayals of Blacks as alcoholics and white women predators with behaviours more akin to monkeys I found extremely revolting and shocking and leaves me completely unsurprised that riots and lynchings quickly followed the screenings of this movie.

Yes, this movie may have been the first feature length movie that used a number of novel techniques but does this excuse the content?  This is not akin to an Einstein discovering relativity folks; every single "good" thing about this movie would have been "discovered/invented" with or without D W. eventually and very probably very soon after.  Every one of the techniques used would have eventually been used by any of the later, talented directors of the time.  The overall lies, attempts to justify racism and the murderous KKK more than make this film fit for the dust bin than for immortality in movie's great hall of fame.  

They say that racists are not born but bred; this is why I'm not at all surprised at what D W Griffith has done here.  His father was considered a "hero" of the Confederate Army where he served as a Colonel.  I'm sure as a bitter loser of the great war, he must have taught his son his belief system and how to be a great racist.  This movie has not been preserved all that well with many scenes being either too bright or too dark and the soundtrack is too loud and it's quite irritating to have to keep hearing Mendelssohn's overtures over and over again.  

In conclusion, the question this movie raises is does freedom of expression mean it's okay to make a mockery of history to further a racist directors' world view?  Also, do you buy the fact that just because this is the first movie that's longer than an hour mean that this should be revered for all time despite its extremely offensive and destructive message?  Like I said before none of the "techniques" that this film claims to have "discovered" are earth-shattering discoveries that would have required a genius to uncover anyway.  So the bottom line is we have here an extremely racist and hate-inducing film that caused a lot more damage than good; D W Griffith's legacy/mess
