
So this was the breakout movie for Mira Sorvino, the one that earned her an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1995. 

This movie, and Mira Sorvino's performance in it, was so bad that after it was over, I just had to find out who her competitors were for the 1995 Best Supporting Actress category. 

Let's see.....according to Wikipedia they were: Kathleen Quinlin ("Apollo 13" - a fairly standard worried-wife-of-astronaut-in-danger role), Mare Winningham ("Georgia" - did not see this one), Joan Allen ("Nixon" - did not see, but how hard can it be to play the wooden Pat Nixon?), and Kate Winslet ("Sense and Sensibilities" - did not see either, but Ang Lee was robbed by the Academy here also).

It only proves just how few good roles there are for women in today's Hollywood that Mira Sorvino could win an Oscar for this sort of performance.

And I was beginning to warm up to her, too - she was great in "Romy and Michele's High School Reunion", and terrific also in "Beautiful Girls".  

So, what exactly is so bad about this movie?  Here's a brief list:

1. Mira Sorvino plays the entire movie in a high-pitched falsetto that sounds like her voice is breaking. Another reviewer described this as similar to listening to fingernails on a blackboard. Maybe in 1995, because she was new, the Academy didn't realize that this wasn't her real voice and took pity on her....

2. Stupid plot device of the Greek Chorus.

3. Stupid happy ending with a twist.

4. Lots of profanity and dialogue that includes explicit descriptions of sex acts done in pornography movies.....while this movie is not itself a porn flick, the explicit details of the porn industry included in the dialogue definitely makes it NOT a movie for families to watch.  

5. Odd sight of a very old and wrinkly Woody Allen (with dyed hair and bald spot) making out with TWO women young enough to be his granddaughters.....all right, so I'm just jealous - Woody still looks gross....

6. Cliched, poorly developed characters, a plotline that goes around in circles, and lots and lots of pointless, unfunny dialogue.

In summary, this movie is bad, bad, bad......
