So what kind of movie is this from the director of "I know what you did last summer?" It's basically another installment of the same genre with a similar set-up and similar function. Deep down, Venom is just another teen slasher movie. They rode into this film with the same clichéd scares, a young group of teens, a psycho killer, and a traditional ending. 

So is it worth seeing? 

That I can't completely answer for you. If you like more of the same old, then it's probably going to be a blast. The filmmakers were smart enough to throw in a few thrilling moments among the mundane, overused plot. I found some parts to be slightly unpredictable, and they did a good job detailing some suspenseful moments near the third act of the film. The voodoo element allowed for some additional surprises and kept the killer from being simply "an unstoppable evil force."

But individually, do the separate factors of this film combine to make a masterpiece? Quite frankly, in my opinion at least....no.  Let's take a look at some of them;

Acting- Well done, well directed too I might add. The acting is realistic to a degree, and brings us into the film. The actors responded (for the most part) realistically to the story line and I think that this was set-up nicely. The major issue here was the persistence in finding a gun when the killer is already dead, not to mention a demon child of voodoo hoodoo. 

Lighting- Dim, dark and mysterious; the lighting definitely amplified the mood of this film. Combined with the swamp-like location, I think that it sets a perfect example of what a good location combined with good lighting can do- make a relatively unattractive plot look beautiful. 

Special Effects- They set this up pretty well. A few scenes made me cringe and I felt that the artists working on the film definitely put their hearts into it...or bled them out for it. The gore wasn't excessive, but just right for a slasher film, and props to the director for making that call. My only qualm with this is that they used the standard Halloween "stage blood" which is just basically a thick bright red liquid that looks nothing like blood despite its color. A few of the actors squirm around in it, only to look like they're rolling around in pizza sauce. There are a few other tacky special effects, including the last major one in the film. 

The Killer- Mr. Jangles....? Enough said...sounds like a dog. I'll give the killer credit for being a good actor, but the portrayal needed a lot of work. The make-up kicked it up a notch, but the slow-motion style jumps and action-movie style stunts didn't do it justice. The man looked like an athlete and moved like one...not like a reincarnated being housing the souls of 13 evil spirits. Although I don't specifically know what that looks like....I'm sure they don't run like football players.

So what overall? It's ok. Not something I'd be dying to see, and I'm glad that I didn't run to the theatre to catch the first showing. It has some good moments and some bad, but doesn't really stand out from any normal Hollywood production. 

My recommendation? 

It's ok. I'd rather go rent Containment instead; the first movie in a long time to completely blow my mind. It's good to know that there is still some talent out there somewhere and that it still filters into the film world now and again...
