After watching "Harsh Times" we wondered "Is this a comedy or are they just mocking inner city life?" we couldn't believe what we were watching. It was meant to be the new 2006 version of "Training Day"--they even got Christian Bale to play the lead role--but only in the eyes of the people involved in it. It was a miscalculation and we'll explain why.

Brief Story:
The movie takes place mostly in the dangerous inner city streets of L.A. Jim Davis (Christian Bale) is a mentally unstable young Iraq War veteran. Now in the States, he is looking for a job as a cop. Jim's best friend Mike Alonzo (Freddy Rodríguez) is also unemployed, but when his friend comes to visit, they prefer to hang out and commit all kinds of illegal activities--selling drugs, guns, getting high just to name few. To spend time with his friend, Mike has to lie to his girlfriend Sylvia (Eva Longoria) making her believe that he is looking for a job. She doesn't know the world of crime they are involved in and the terrible consequences they might face.

Review:
"Harsh Times" has many problems, but the most notorious one is the crime "video game" feeling it has throughout the film. The characters and situations are so unbelievable that the whole thing feels like watching a "Grand Theft Auto" or "Scarface: The World Is Yours" video game adaptation with a little bit of "Cheech & Chong" in the mix. There is no climax--we just see them driving to different places, arguing among themselves and committing all kinds of crimes without anything conclusive until the very end. Christian Bale's accent in this movie doesn't help either, not only it changes through out the film, but we are not sure what kind of accent he is trying to emulate. The dialogue between the two friends feels forced and teenager-like--also there is no chemistry between them. The acting in this movie is disappointing, especially from Bale who we liked in movies like "American Psycho", "Batman Returns" and "The Prestige." It is clear that he was miscast this time. He just cannot do what Denzel Washington did in "Training Day." Because of his accent and terrible acting in this film, we believe this is his worst performance to date. This is something he doesn't want to add to his resume.

The Verdict:
Christian Bale Returns, but this new American Psycho cannot find his Equilibrium. "Harsh Times" tries too hard to create the edgy, dramatic style of the dangerous inner city life that "Training Day" had, but it doesn't even come close to achieve that goal. We laugh at the silliness of the story, overdramatic acting and Christian Bale whose fake accent in this film has to be the worst of the year. He probably thought he was going to get nominated for best actor. This is a miscalculation of great proportions by him and his agent.

