As I stated before, I have a fabulous thing called "Digital Cable". One night I was flippin through the channels and this movie was on. I could only watch so much of it before I had to turn it off because the voice dubbing was way off. Sometimes that happens with "Digital Cable", but it usually it will right itself in the end. As I watched for about a half an hour I could not take it anymore. I tried everything to fix it including switching channels, turning on and off the TV, and things of that nature. I even went as far as calling Comcast and complaining, but even that was a wasted effort. I eventually had to turn it off because I was a hairs-width away from haymakering Morris. 

Well, even though Comcast ruined my viewing experience so far, when I was at Blockbuster I decided to give it another chance. I know I mentioned that the lead actor could not act but I thought I could look past this, because it might not be completely his fault. For one the visuals could be slightly off like the voices, or it might be because it's his first movie. Who knows but Howard's mind was made up. "Rumble in the Bronx" was to be rented. From what I saw so far on "Digital Cable", I possibly found a person I could call my mentor, when I enter the world of stuntmen. 

When I returned home I threw the DVD in the DVD Player and guess what? The DVD was messed up as well, the voice dubbing was totally off key as it was on "Digital Cable". I raced back to Blockbusters and returned it and grabbed another copy, telling them this DVD was broken. I returned home again and tried to watch it. "WHAT THE HECK!?" I yelled, "IS THE WORLD AGAINST HOWARD TUTTLEMAN!?" You guessed it that DVD was messed up as too. I even tried it out on another DVD Player and it proved to me that the run of DVDs Blockbuster has were all messed up. I got so frustrated that I threw the DVD out the window (I rented it on my father's card so there is no recourse to me). 

After I cooled down alittle bit by blasting away on my harmonica, I was still determined to see this movie. I ran up to Best Buy in Troy, and I found a copy. I asked the servant that was working in the movie section if this is the most updated and newest version, hoping that it was a new pressing. I was happy with his answer and purchased it. Well I returned home and made up some popcorn and grabbed a pop. I put the DVD in the DVD Player and dimmed the lights. Finally, Tuttleman will have his moment. 

Well to keep this clean and short, let me say that, that night ended with a baseball bat, three (3) stitches in my hand, a broken window, and a hefty grounding-sentence(we are talking WEEKS here). In Conclusion, some movies can't be good, no matter how cool the stuntman, this movie should be pulled off the shelves because it could possibly start a riot. Later. 

