Warning: Spoilers Abound.

Okay folks, I was flipping channels and came across a movie called The Hole, starring Thora Birch, Keira Knightley and Desmond Harrington. Now, aside from this terrible blunder I'm going to tell you about in just a few more sentences, the film was fairly entertaining. I dig Thora Birch, and her character was really well-played. What really shocked me though, was my quick research after the film was over. I mean, I checked IMdB, Rotten Tomatoes and Wikipedia. Although all reputable sources, none mentioned this ridiculous mistake.

Have you ever been so utterly sure of something so blantantly, painstakingly obvious that it would literally take an entirely different, alien planet to be able to even minutely comprehend the vast insipidness of its vacuous residents? That's how I felt after watching this movie and realizing that apparently I'm the only goddamn human being on this prosaic, infantile planet who immediately saw the dimwitted aberration for what it was!

And what exactly was this stupendous error, you ask? Well... It's very simple. I mean, it couldn't get more common sensically moronic than this. The basic plot of the film is four teenagers trapped in an old war bunker. The movie begins with Thora Birch's rendition of what happened: that her friend set this whole thing up, locked them in the 'hole' and didn't come back when he was supposed to. She escapes and the three others die. The story changes from what she originally told her psychiatrist to what actually happened. Turns out the only way out was actually locked from the inside and Thora had the key the whole time. The other teenagers die for various reasons, irrelevant to the blunder at hand, and she ends up telling the tale to her psychiatrist from inside the bunker. In the end, she kills the guy who set it up and plants the key on him. The police come and find Thora and her psychiatrist in the 'hole' and after rebuking the psychiatrist, mention that the case is now closed. At that moment, a flashback shows Thora murdering her friend that set everything up and planting the key on him. Right after that moment, I said to myself: "What the heck? The door locks from the inside?! It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that either a) the door was never locked, or b) someone had to unlock it from the inside!" Alright, those weren't my exact words, but good god, it's so obvious!

And that, my friends, has got to be possibly the worst film blunder ever
