Steven Spielberg's classic masterpiece JAWS did not have a stellar plot.  It was a bubblegum storyline: a monstrous shark terrorizes a beach town on the east coast.  In the hands of any other director, it would have been a terrible film, something to laugh at on lonely Saturday nights while chowing down popcorn.  In the hands of Mr. Spielberg, however, it became one of the very finest and most memorable films ever made.  

Steven Spielberg's hands were nowhere near JAWS: THE REVENGE.

Okay, so here's the plot.  Remember JAWS 3-D?  Well, that never happened.  Chief Brody - from the first movie - is dead.  His wife, Ellen Brody (Lorraine Gary), is living a happy life in Amity until her youngest son is killed - by a great white shark.  Ellen flies down to the Bahamas with her other son, Michael Brody (Lance Guest).  Though her family and friends assure her that she is crazy, Ellen believes that the shark from the first movie - yes, the one that Chief Brody killed - is back for revenge, hunting down her family and killing them one-by-one.  Even though it died.  In the first movie.  

Confused?  Any sensible moviegoer would be.  It's best to completely shut down your brain while watching the third JAWS sequel.  As you now know, the story is completely absurd.  The script, by Michael De Guzman, is unintentionally hilarious, filled with outrageously funny dialogue.  For example, in one scene, pilot Hoagie (played by Michael Caine!) is courting Ellen Brody.

HOAGIE: I have an irresistible urge to kiss you, Ellen Brody.
ELLEN: Why?
HOAGIE: Because ... it would not occur to you why.

And if that's not confusing enough for you, feast upon this nugget of dialogue, from a conversation between Michael and Ellen Brody.

ELLEN: Why did you come out here?  Why did you come out here?
MICHAEL: Mom!  Mom!  WHY did you take the boat?
ELLEN: It [the shark] kept coming!
MICHAEL: Don't you realize what you're doing?
ELLEN: I've tried to tell you, there was nothing else to do!
MICHAEL: Mom, you shouldn't have done it.
ELLEN: I've tried to tell you, I've tried!

Joseph Sargent's directing is terrible; it's clear that the actors have no clue what they are doing.  Which may be why the acting is so horrible.  The highlight of the cast is Lance Guest, whose straight-faced performance overshadows the very talented Michael Caine's by a longshot.  The horrid acting is forgivable, however; after all, how could someone even attempt to keep a straight-face in a film so absurd?  A film in which sharks roar, swim from New England to the Bahamas to kill family members, and leap thirty feet out of the water?

On the plus side, JAWS: THE REVENGE is enormously fun to watch, thanks to its ridiculousness and unpurposeful hilarity.  It is very likely one of the worst films ever made - JAWS 3-D looks like the original when compared to this film - but if there's nothing else on TV some late night, grab some popcorn and a frosty beverage and enjoy the absurdity that is JAWS: THE REVENGE
