"The Last American Virgin" was literally one of the worst movies I've ever seen, and that's saying a lot. It's not a surprise no one from this film went on to any sort of stardom. The writing was terrible, the acting was terrible, the direction was terrible, the pacing was terrible, the jokes were god-awful, etc. Even the girls weren't really that attractive (with the huge '80s hair and bad fashion)! I mean, what the hell was that fat, ugly, dorky girl with the glasses doing in this movie, and, even more perplexing, why was our "hero" trying to lay her?? And why was our "hero" best friends with that jerk who kept screwing him over with the girl he was in love with? They would be at each other's throats in one scene and then best friends in the next! I would say that the only redeeming quality of this movie was the soundtrack, but then they started repeating the same songs over and over again. I guess the producers ran out of money to fund the rights to extra songs. They played "Whip It" twice, "Shake It Up" at least three times, and, at last count, "Just Once" like five times, when "Once" was certainly enough. Songs that I didn't know at the beginning of the movie I  knew by heart word for word by the end. To top it all off, this movie had one of the worst, most disastrous endings I've ever seen. I can maybe understand if this was a heartfelt, coming-of-age drama, but when you're doing a mindless, teen-sex comedy, you don't end on a downer and depress the audience! After all the hell our "hero" goes through, he ends up driving home alone without the girl and still a virgin, and then, without any follow-up or warning, the credits start rolling! I was like, "What the hell?"
The only great thing about the movie is that I had a ball paying "MST3K," only no one was around to appreciate my witty, sardonic remarks, so I'll have to reproduce them here for your pleasure:
 
On Arguing with Your "Best Friend" Over the "Love of Your Life":
"Hey, I stalked her first!"
 
On Sparking Up a Romance with Said Girl:
"Remember our awkward conversation in my pizza mobile? Didn't that mean anything to you??"
 
On Declaring Your Love for Said Girl:
"I've loved you ever since I destroyed your bike just so you'd talk to me!"
 
On Major Operations, "Not that Big a Deal":
Real line (referring to the girl's upcoming abortion): "Hey, it happens all the time. It's not that big a deal."
My line: "Yeah, it's a simple coat hanger procedure!"
(and later)
Real line: "I know dozens of girls who've done it!"
My line: "I've helped all the gals in the neighborhood. They call me Dr. Abortion!"
 
On Nerds at Parties:
"Man, there's nothing cooler than sucking from a juice box with a straw! Aww, yeah!!"
 
On Fat Girls, Inconsistent Characterizations of:
Real line: "You know I have to be home by a quarter to 12!"
(a minute later)
"You said you had drugs! Where are they?"
My line: "I have to be home by midnight or my parents will kill me! So fu*k me in the a$$ and let's do some blow before they come home!"
 
On Choose Your Mate Carefully:
(as our "heroes" scratch their balls after having sex with a promiscuous, older woman) "Nothing's funnier than getting gonorrhea, eh folks?!"

Skip this dreck and rent "Fast Times at Ridgemont High" instead. At least that one had Phoebe Cates
