Synopsis (including Ending):
Don Ameche (Gino), a Chicago shoe shine man, is approached by the mafia to go to 
jail for "3 to 5 years" to take the place of their Mafia boss accused of murder because 
he bears a striking resemblance to him.  They'll pay him yearly and satisfy his lifelong 
dream of fishing on a boat.   Joe Mantegna (Jerry) takes Don Ameche (Gino) on a 3 day 
vacation to satisfy his every wish before he's incarcerated.  Joe Mantegna is on probation 
from the Mob, after disobeying orders from a previous job.  Joe Mantegna goes  
"outside channels" to take Don Ameche (Gino) to Lake Tahoe to the "Galaxy" Hotel 
where they stay, wine and dine, and try to have a good time.  Things turn difficult 
when a local real Mafia Boss brings Don Ameche (Gino) to his house as a guest and 
they form a bond.  The real Mafia Boss has a gathering of crime bosses planned and 
Don Ameche and Joe Mantegna are caught in the middle.  They escape the gathering 
and on the day Don Ameche is brought back to Chicago, Joe Mantegna is ordered
to kill Don Ameche and make it look like a suicide.  "It's cleaner this way...", he's told.
Joe Mantegna refuses the order, and the film ends with a Mafia employee testifying
in court and getting sentenced to jail for 20 years to life.

The Good:
Joe Mantegna is an underrated actor generally and it was nice to see a familiar face in
the real Mafia Boss in Lake Tahoe.  Other than that, there's nothing else going for
this one except a slightly funny scene with the concierge.

The Bad:
The Mob wants tough guys, right?  This is a comedy, right?  
No ones a tough guy and there's no laughs.

Joe Mantegna plays a sissy instead of a Mafia tough guy.  
Don Ameche plays a senile acting senior with no personality.  

I wanted to like this film but I coulden't because it was very slow, very boring
and none of the characters were interesting.   

We never have a scene with the real Mafia Boss that looks like Don Amecha 
and the two never meet.  You would expect a friendly "Thanks for going to jail 
for 3 to 5 years for me" but it doesn't happen.

At the end someone for the Mob is dressed up like the real Mafia Boss and he's
testifying in court and gets sentenced to jail.  He doesn't look anything like Don
Ameche or the real Mafia Boss and yet, he's right there taking the fall.
If the film didn't need to depend on Don Ameche's appearance, why didn't
they send him to jail from the beginning?  

The worst David Mamet experience I've had.  Very surprising stinker.

The Characters:
If Don Ameche played a less passive character he would have been more interesting.
If Joe Mantegna showed more conflict as a character with reasons behind them,
he would have been more interesting.  As the film stands, they're both flat.

Don Ameche had no personality and his only lines are the ones other characters
used.  When a character says something, you can be sure Don Ameche repeats it
30 minutes later like a senile robot.  Don Ameche's dialogue leaves a lot to be desired.  
Add to that his boring and stale acting in this film.
 
He played very dumb, not interesting, like a real man in crisis about to go to
jail for money.

Overall, Joe Mantegna was not believable as a Mafia hired hand.   
Don Ameche was too passive and uninteresting, and Joe Mantegna is too 
passive and stale.

Scene Criticism:
A couple scenes stand out as being very weak and unrealistic.

(Gas Station scene where Joe Mantegna is given $3 more in gas than he asked for)
Joe Mantegna is working for the mob, and he asks for $1 of gas, 
and gets $4.  He doesn't have the cash to pay, and when the gas
attendant takes the car keys his reaction is "Please, please, please"
A real Mob guy would punch the gas attendant, take back the keys,
and leave for the plane they were late for.  A mob guy that won't 
defend himself for $3?

(Scene with Don Ameche offered money to go to jail for 3 to 5 years)
Don Ameche doesn't put up a fight or try to leave the room, and is 
too passive.  We don't learn about his past or his life or family.  
There's not enough time spent on the offer, and the scene was
over valued for it's lasting value.

(Bedroom scene with Joe Mantegna trying to let Don Ameche escape)
Joe Mantegna had no real connection to Don Ameche's character
to justify the scene.  Instead it's 2 strangers.
 
 

Personal Commentary:
The test for a comedy for me is - "how many times did I laugh?"
This film never made me laugh.  I'm shocked the film costs $24.99 
on DVD.  Rent it instead.  It belongs in the $1 bin at Wal-mart.

Writing Criticism:
Lines like "He's the guy behind the guy behind the guy behind the 
guy" and lines like "A big man knows the value of a small coin"
and the story about the grasshopper and the ant make no sense.
The writing is drivel.

Alternative Recommended Film:  "Trading Places" with Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy and also
Don Ameche, albeit in a smaller role
