I waited over 30 years to see this film, and now that I have -- I'm glad I waited that long.  Its glaring defects might not have been so obvious to me 30 years ago.  

Nicholas, Alexandra, their daughters, their son, the people surrounding them -- not only are they not fictional, but thanks to the era in which they lived, they were photographed, we know what they actually looked like.  So who on earth did the casting?!  It was impossible to tell one Grand Duchess from another, and as for Alexandra -- in the first few scenes, I had trouble distinguishing the actress from someone in drag.  Janet Suzman was the worst casting flub of all, unless you count the stilted manner in which Michael Jayston delivered his lines.  What a stiff and boring character he makes Nicholas to be.  Yet there are photos extant of Nicholas smiling as he played with his children.  Nicholas was also portrayed as obsessed with holding on to his power as Tsar.  But in the Robert Massie book after which the movie was purportedly modeled, it was very clear that Nicholas was acutely aware of his responsibilities to the Russian people, as well as to his family, and above all his son, the future Tsar.  There was nothing exceptional about his behavior; most of Europe at the time was ruled by kings and queens, and to all of them, the thought of losing their thrones was simply unthinkable.

Yet this film falls into the trap most of us do, of judging history not on the basis of its own terms, but with our usual spectacularly accurate 20/20 hindsight.  Having been fed Soviet propaganda for 75 years, we have it entrenched in our minds that Nicholas was an extremely poor ruler.  That's the stunning success of the Massie book, that someone who had absolutely no connection to Russians, and no connection to royalty save for the one coincidence of both their sons having hemophilia, was able to overcome the general (and erroneous) "knowledge" of his time and write the kind of sympathetic biography of this family that was long lacking.  The movie, on the other hand, makes Nicholas look petty, and Alexandra slightly over the edge.

One petty anachronism was the scene that showed the royal family praying just prior to Nicholas's sending off his troops into World War I.  It was badly researched, to the point of ludicrousness.  The Tsars of Russia were all Orthodox Christians.  Orthodox Christianity has its own very distinctive music; in fact, Russian Orthodox chant is very different from Greek Orthodox chant.  So what kind of background music did the director choose?  Gregorian, of course!  Can we at least *strive* for a little authenticity?!

Apparently not.  Massie wrote in considerable detail about the attitude of the Romanovs towards their captors, how their guards had to be changed every three or so months because they kept winning over the Bolsheviks:  "You aren't anything like what we thought," was the most frequently quoted comment on the subject.  The movie showed nothing of that.  Well -- in the end, it was this exact trait of graciousness and consideration towards their captors that ended up getting the Romanov family canonized in the Russian Orthodox Church.  That movement was well underway by 1971; I wonder, if the directors and producers had done a little more thorough research, if the film would have been a tad more sympathetic to these five people caught between two worlds and two cultures.

All in all, purchasing the movie was a waste of money.  Maybe the Bolsheviks over at the University's Russian Department will appreciate my donating it -- that way, others can get to see it without wasting their money
