I used to have respect for Bill Maher. He used to actually inspire me when it came to being brave enough to argue my own opinions without making apologies; but not anymore. My respect dissipated as his fairness was replaced by blinding hatred for GWB and religion. 

I watched "I'm Swiss" once and almost couldn't refrain from vomiting. 

He talks about the usual suspects: the president, religion, obesity, same-sex marriage, Rap, and few other things that "comedians" are good at joking about and liberals are good at preaching about. I know, I know, he's not a liberal, he's a libertarian. Well, I have watched and listened to Bill Maher and I know which side he's on most of the time, and it sure isn't on the right. He hates organized religion and traditional morality too much to be on the right much of the time. I don't know why his panties are in such a bunch. Being organized is better than being disorganized (I can tell jokes too). I'm not religious; and I can't help but see much of it as hard to swallow, but I'm not arrogant enough to call all of it just a bunch of fairytales created and believed by people with neurological disorders. I wasn't there when the Bible was written or when the events took place. I can't say it's all fairtyales. I can only say some of it isn't logical. But, I respect religion and its purposes; which is what separates me from him. 

He has no qualms about crushing the hope of people who believe in an afterlife or religion, which are both things that make life more bearable for them. The purpose of religion is to provide hope and solace and relief to people who are living in desperation. The same purpose of drugs I might add: something Maher not only defends but abuses. Why the double standard?  This is no longer the eleventh century where Protestants are killing Catholics. The only people k/illing in the name of religion are fanatical Muslims, but most religious people are good, decent, nonviolent individuals. Maher's not an atheist, but he has recently expressed a "could be, could be not" attitude toward the existence of a G/od, which would make him agnostic. But one thing is for sure, atheism has more blood on its hands than religion does. Two of our biggest mass murderers--Hitler and Stalin--were atheist. 

It's a shame when non comedians are actually funnier than Maher, who wears the comedian label but is too bitter to be a good one. Most of the time, he can barely get the joke out without laughing at himself. I laughed twice during the entire show. 

No one has ever accused Maher of being modest. He's a smug, intellectual elitist. And those are his GOOD qualities. "I'm Swiss" displays this all too clearly. In case you didn't know, "I'm Swiss" is a running joke of Maher's embarrassment of being an American. He'd rather belong to a country where ethics are a substitution for, not an extension of, morality; where any depraved activity that has no victim is not immoral at all; where adultery is seen as cute, not sinful; where there are no fat people; where the only women who exist are the pretty ones he can sleep with or the ugly ones who agree with his opinions.

Thank God I live in America and not Switzerland.
