For better or worse, after the relative box-office slump of ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE, producers Brocolli and Saltzman decided to woo Sean Connery back to do one more film for an amazing sum.  Connery, who had said he would never do another Bond film, donated all of his money to his own foundation.  While his performance is competent and smooth as ever, he seems all business.  No longer in love with the character and having realized long before that the character was stagnant, Connery mechanically works his way through DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER, an outright bore of the Bond series and, in my opinion, one of the worst (certainly Connery's worst).  While some have tried to save the film by arguing that it is a parody of the Bond genre, it plainly isn't.  It was an attempt to return Bond to his former glory days and generate profit for the producers.  Far from trying to lampoon the Bond formula, the producers were trying to resuscitate it.  And they failed.  

After the opening "gun barrel" sequence, we quickly find Bond on a personal mission to kill Blofeld once and for all after the death of Bond's only true wife (discounting the false marriage in YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE) in ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE.  (At least, this is what we must assume, since no mention of the marriage is made in DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER).  Bond catches Blofeld in the process of producing clones for himself in an underground laboratory and, after a couple of struggles with both Blofeld and a duplicate, Bond drowns Blofeld in a vat of mud.  It is a very short and quick opening teaser and immediately runs into the titles sequence.  The titles involves various diamonds, slowly revealed to be various pieces jewelry worn by beautiful women, all set to the title song sung by Shirley Bassey (who also sang the GOLDFINGER title).  

The plot of DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER is quite strange.  In an opening similar to GOLDFINGER, we learn that large quantities of South African diamonds have been smuggled recently and yet, surprisingly, have not made their way to the market.  Worried that the diamonds will be released in order to inflate the diamond market, Bond is sent in to infiltrate the smuggling operation, disguised as Peter Franks.  Bond quickly succeeds, meeting up with Tiffany Case (Jill St. John), an attractive diamond smuggler who is suspicious of Bond's identity.  Bond's mission is almost compromised from the start when the real Peter Franks makes an entrance, forcing Bond to fight him in a terrific elevator sequence that is reminiscent of the train fight in FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE.  After a smuggling attempt goes awry (thanks to Bond), Bond is discovered and learns of the real purpose of the operation he is infiltrating.  It turns out that Blofeld is behind it all (Bond killed only two duplicates in the opening teaser)!  Blofeld has been smuggling diamonds to create a laser satellite that is capable of destroying anything on Earth.  Blofeld has been hiding his operation by posing as recluse Willard Whyte (Jimmy Dean), whom he has secretly kidnapped unbeknownst to the world, and using Whyte's resources and industrial facilities to manufacture his powerful laser.  Blofeld plans to destroy various nuclear installations in America, Russia, and China.  The purpose?  Blofeld is organizing an international auction, offering nuclear supremacy to the highest bidder!  Will Bond be able to stop him in time?  

DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER feels like a film that was stitched together, rather poorly, from a myriad of interesting elements.  One feels that the producers had a bunch of ideas on the cutting floor and attempted to piece them together into a logical story order.  The infiltration of a smuggling ring, the wonderful fight sequence in the elevator, the quirky and gay hitmen Mr. Wint (Bruce Glover) and Mr. Kidd (Putter Smith), a not-so-subtle rendition of the famous Las Vegas recluse Howard Hughes, a fight on an oil rig, et cetera.  All of these elements are fairly interesting in their own right, but the combination doesn't yield what the producers were hoping for.  What is it about this film that feels so ridiculous?  One of the major problems, in my opinion, is situating Bond in Las Vegas.  Bond in America is dull.  His class, wit, and sophistication are only cheapened when placed in the cheesy context of Las Vegas in the 1970s.  Bond is supposed to take us to exotic locations--not to a strip club.  Furthermore, the action is not quite on par with the rest of the series.  I think everyone will agree that the chase scene in which Bond escapes through the desert on a moon buggy is absurd.  The chase is boring, the buggy looks ridiculous and prop-esque, and there is no suspense.  The climactic fight on the oil rig is equally boring.  Sure, we have a big set and big explosions.  But there is no cutting edge stuff here. 

Connery, as mentioned, looks very tired here.  Tiffany Case is a bit refreshing, but quickly becomes dim-witted and dull.  And the Bond girl with the clever name, Plenty O'Toole (Lana Wood) is only in the film for all of five minutes.  Blofeld is now played by Charles Gray, who first made his appearance as Bond's Japan contact in YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE.  Gray's performance takes Blofeld back to the ridiculousness of YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, even appearing in drag at one point.   There isn't much more to say.  The acting is dead in DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER.  

Now, some have tried to defend DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER by claiming that the film is an outright attempt to make a parody of the Bond genre.  After producing six Bond films, the producers were ready to lampoon their own creation and move Bond into the Roger Moore pun-fest the series would eventually become.  While this certainly seems to create an outlet for the film, it seems plainly false.  If you watch the "Making of" documentary on the Ultimate Edition, it is clear that everyone thought they were making a real Bond flick and not a parody.  The producers were trying to bring the series back to its former glory days and to produce big box-office success.  They were not trying to create a subtle piece that exposed the hilarious features of the Bond formula.  Anyone claiming otherwise is just engaging in wishful thinking and rationalization.  This film stinks.  Let's get over it.  

Ultimately, I think you should skip DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER.  The only reason to see it is if you are a completist about the series and desire to watch them in order.  It is an awkward insert into the series during the transition between Sean Connery and Roger Moore.  The Ultimate Edition does have crisp picture and sound.  If you must struggle through the film, make sure to get this edition because it is at least watchable.  But if you only desire to watch the better Bond films, skip it.  Diamonds may be forever, but this film died a long time ago.  
