This is a rather peculiar film for Seagal, and the first thing that should be pointed out to any Seagal fan contemplating whether or not to give this one a try is that this is really not an action film.  Seagal only has a couple fight scenes in the whole film and they are all extremely brief.  In fact, they are extraordinarily brief, though thankfully free of wirefu.  

Though Out of Reach is by no means a total failure (it's actually pretty entertaining, Seagal as always is fun to watch, and some of the scenes are well done), the script nevertheless exhibits some problems and plot holes.  This film is a drama about a nature nut (Seagal) who roams the forest looking for injured animals.  He has a pen pal in Poland, a young girl, and when he hears that she will no longer be able to correspond with him he becomes so upset that he travels abroad to look for her, even though he really has no reason to suspect that anything is wrong with her.  This brings up the main problem with this film, namely, a lot of it simply doesn't make any sense.  It turns out that the girl has been sold to a human trafficking ring, and Seagal goes through the motions to save her.

As per usual with Seagal nowadays, he obviously refused to actually finish the production, and so we have the usual dubbing problem here.  It is even more salient than usual in this picture, however, for here we have not one, but several different people dubbing Seagal's voice, none of whom even remotely sound a thing like him!  Here the most frequently heard fill-in for Seagal sounds like a knock-off Benecio Del Toro with a much higher-pitched voice.  As you can imagine, the effect is very humorous.  

As stated above, the main problem with this movie is that it simply doesn't make sense, which was apparently realized by the director, as he has, in many scenes, the voice fill-in for Seagal narrating an explanation of what the character is thinking! How obnoxious! 

Seagal's character likes to teach codes and ciphers to his pen pal, which she later uses to communicate with Seagal.  What makes no sense is that every time she leaves a message for Seagal, the villian, ineptly played by Matt Schultz, sees the girl doing it and yet leaves the message for Seagal to find! In one ridiculous scene the girl arranges some caviar on crackers to make a code.  (Apparently three crackers of one kind followed by three crackers of another kind followed by three crackers of another kind means "This is a trap.")  The villain sees her doing this, and, instead of destroying the message (which would make sense), later has it delivered to Seagal! Huh? In a scene when the girl leaves a message on a mirror telling Seagal where she is, the villian sees her doing it, comments on how clever she is, but then leaves the message! 

There are also quite of few mistakes in this film, several of which are laughably obvious.  At the beginning and end of this film, for example, Seagal has long hair which looks like frizzy, black cotton candy being pulled off the back of his head.  During the rest of the film, however, he has short hair.  At the end, after some BS macho dialogue about how Seagal hates taking life but will enjoy killing Schultz slowly, each character uncocks his pistol even though Schultz's pistol does not have an external hammer to uncock, and even though in the very next closeup Seagal's pistol is still cocked! After a sword fight, which ends on a classic move from older chambara films, notice that there is clearly no blood on the floor, and that then, all-of-a-sudden, there is a huge trail of blood between the two characters.  

In the finale, the above-mentioned sword fight, the camera cuts between closeups of the two characters to faraway shots that are clearly of someone other than Seagal.  This brings up another frequent complaint of many Seagal fans: his overuse of stunt doubles.  It's almost so bad now that one could say that he doesn't even film his own fight scenes now.  Have you ever noticed that in Lord Steven's early films, when there was a fight scene the camera would pull back and let you see his moves? Now what happens? The camera gets as close as possible, shows some shots of his face grunting, shows some arms playing paddycake, then pulls back showing some fighting while never showing Seagal's face.  Ever wonder why? It's because, surprise, surprise, that's not Seagal doing the fighting.   
In the gun fight, which is actually a very decent action scene, watch Seagal as he enters the room.  His character enters the fight by doing a foward aikido roll, which is probably the simplest move in aikido, though it is obvious that it is not Seagal doing the roll.  What is even more irksome is that both at the beginning and the end of the film, which shows Seagal's character "roaming the forest looking for injured animals," or whatever, it is clearly not Seagal that we see walking through the forest.  Was he afraid that he'd trip over a branch and injure himself? Was he afraid he'd be attacked by an injured animal in the woods? I don't know.  What is likely the case is that Seagal again refused to finish the shoot and some scenes had to be constructed after-the-fact, using another actor, in order to make the film work.  I'm really not bashing Seagal, I'm merely complaining because these are persistent types of flaws in his recent films that could VERY easily be fixed.  

Be on the lookout for the bizarre scene when Seagal goes to the post office.  The postal worker calls Seagal "Mr. Delacraw," or some such bizarre name, even though his character's name is actually Billy Ray Lancing.  Seagal then proceeds to mumble some French to the man, and then suddenly adopts a cajun accent.  This scene is downright strange.  What is also strange is how Seagal is dressed in this scene--like some kind of New Orleans Anne Rice fan, vampire wannabe in a strange, black fur coat.  I don't know, at least it's good for a laugh. 

If Seagal continues in this manner he will quickly find himself unemployable.  The only truly schocking thing is that this hasn't happened yet.  He shows up late to shoots, leaves early, refuses to finish productions, and yet people keep hiring the man.  He repeatedy refuses to do the requisite work for a complete production.  He needs to start finishing his films.  In closing, Out of Reach only has two VERY brief fight scenes, but they are somewhat well done.  Seagal actually takes a few blows in the climatic fight, which is a very nice change and certainly makes his character seem more human.

