The Quiet Earth is overrated for a variety of reasons that will be discussed below. This movie is not the epic, thought-provoking, intelligent sci fi I was led to believe it was. It's actually very overrated, and fans of intelligent sci fi such as 2001 or Primer will likely be very disappointed. The first 30 minutes or so are jaw-dropping. I was really getting geared up for what I was sure was going to become one of my all-time favorites. The scenes of Bruno standing above the wrecked passenger jet, driving around a mall, the sun rising to the haunting score--all unforgettable. The scenes where Bruno starts to lose it, running around in a slip brandishing a shotgun, setting up cardboard figures of celebrities and pretending he's their ruler, giving them speeches (That's why I deserve to be President...of the quiet earth...I've been condemned to live) are all great. After this point the movie starts to disintegrate, and quickly. The female character is highly irritating, so much so that I think I would have ditched her and looked for other survivors. Api is also highly irritating, and when the film veers away from its central mystery and starts devolving into yet another film about a petty love triangle--my thumbs were pointing down, way down. 

Something needs to be said about the ending of this film. So many people have said that it's "deep." How is it "deep?" How is it deep when it's just a gimmicky way to quickly wrap a rather dodgy film that really doesn't have anything to say? Let's examine this. Many people argue the following (and if they were correct the film would've been much better than it was): The main character is a scientist who convinces himself that Project Flashlight resulted in "the effect" (even though others here insist on calling it "the event") which made everyone else disappear. The main characters come to believe that "the effect" didn't snatch them up too because they were died right when it happened. But what if there isn't any "effect" at all? What if these are just three people who died and then went to another earth where there aren't any people? The scientist then convinces himself that "the effect" is going to happen again, and, understandably fed up with the fact that the only other two people on earth are a bonkers, daffy, annoying woman and a nutty, homicidal maniac, decides to basically kill himself while blowing up the satellite for Project Flashlight. He dies again and ends up on another world, one which this time doesn't even resemble earth. The end. It would have been very clever if this was what was going on, if there really wasn't an "effect" at all and if the three protagonists had just happened to go to the same place when they died. Unfortunately, all the critics saying "they went to another earth where everyone else was gone" are forgetting something: the dead bodies! I know there aren't a lot, but remember, there's the radiation burn guy in the science station, and there's the dead guy on the hood of his car, and the dead woman holding a CB radio, etc. If they went to another earth where life was absent, why are there dead people? The real answer is that this movie was not very well thought out, that it doesn't make sense, and that the ending is just a cheap and easy way to try and appear impressive. According to the people who worked on the film, "the effect" obviously did occur, and what happens at the end is that when the scientist tries to kill himself a second time he dies, again, at the exact moment that "the effect" occurs a second time. So at the end, "the effect" does occur a second time, which means the girl and Api are history, and the scientist, as he again dies when "the effect" occurs, moves on one more time. Another point that is made in the DVD commentary is that the film was made by a Catholic, so the obvious purgatory then heaven tripe comes to mind.  

Also highly irritating is that for a scientist, the main character is not very smart. He laments that he's the last person on earth and then he runs into a nutty woman. They find a nutty guy named Api and then the three of them conclude they're the last three people on earth! What?! Are they totally daft? A scientist would quickly reason that if there were three people within such a small region of the same city then there are probably other people in the city, more people than that throughout the rest of New Zealand, and even more people in bigger places such as America, Europe, and Asia. That his first conclusion is always that "they're the only ones" only demonstrates his stupidity. They come to believe that they all died at the same time, right when "the effect" occurred, and that that's why they remained on earth. Well, if three people died at the exact same time in the same city in tiny New Zealand, then many, many other people must've died at that time throughout the rest of the massive world.
