I'll give the leads the benefit of the doubt that they're actually a lot better than this lame-o-flick deserves. Kutcher and Murphy are Tom and Sara, the mismatched couple that loves itself to pieces in this story which strains for laughs. After a whirlwind romance, Sara introduces Tom to her tony Beverly Hills family. They marry and the rest (much like their marriage) is quickly history. Things go bad from the wedding night (bloody noses, no sex) and only get worse. After Tom nearly burns down the French Chalet that Sara booked them into (after a fatal misunderstanding involving voltage differences in Europe and an electric sex-toy), and compounds problems by taking them to the worst hotel in Venice (cockroaches, dust and no sex), our heroes quickly realize that they are on the Honeymoon-from-hell. At first they gamely make a go of it, not realizing that they're only saving their tension for the perfect moment.

"Just Married" was a simple idea for a flick. People have been laughing at marriage for years. Maybe that's why the jokes seem forced - the sex-toy fiasco painfully illustrates how far the script will go to get a laugh, and we get that one early on. Every joke is actually half of a joke about Sara and Tom can't have sex, climaxing (really, no pun intended - I mean it!) when Sara tricks custom's inspectors into giving her hated hubby a full-rectal exam (cut to the scene of Tom walking bow-legged onto the plane; obviously he's the victim, but in the perverse logic of this unsexual non-comedy, you've got to wonder whether Tom is actually the victor - he at least got some.) The script can't get past a monumental plot gap: Tom and Sara really don't have anything in common - you'd think they'd have learnt and gotten past their foibles while they dated, but the story skips past much of that. Tom's the hero, but he's an idiot - the script makes him out as the ugly American, an utterly dated cliche (he's surprised that nobody in Europe watches American baseball; he's the kind of idiot who uses "American" instead of "English" when referring to language - as in "Why isn't there a sign in American warning against using US voltage sex-toys in France?"  The laughs are far and few in between - the best ones involve cars (both the ridiculous sub-compact they rent in France, and the Dodge Barracuda (at least I think it's a `Cuda) that Tom drives - a monster which was probably meant to remind us about "That 70's show" but which looks like a prop from the "Phantasm" movies. If ever there was a flick that needed help from "The Tall Man", this is it
