This out of all the many versions of Jane Eyre has to be my least favorite...  
Granted Samantha Morton has  a very  adorable fairy/ Elfin like face like Mr Rochesters Description of her, but her acting has  no highs and lows. She stands up to Mr Edwards a little too much giving really snappy answers, seemingly no respect to her employer, which is not fault of  hers, the writing of the script is bad.... and so the direction. Ciaran Hinds  is totally over the top. He is so angry with no understanding, his eyes are  very lustful and at times  crazed.  He is not at all like the character  described in Brontes epic book of a very sad and  tortured man who falls hopelessly in love with the  innocence and singular personality of earnest, honest and yet strong sweet  Jane Eyre that Charlotte Bronte brought so vividly to life with her classic words. 

 The over acting of both during the proposal scene is almost comical.To me there is no love, feeling  or chemistry here between the two actors just lust.... He seems to be going through a middle age crises just eyeing up this young girl, and she though supposedy a virgin...  she dosn't act like one.
 Plus this movie  seems very rushed you can never get a good foot hold of the story Especially during Janes childhood. I do also miss the Gypsy scene that is omitted in many of these movies and was expertly done in the Dalton /Clarke mini series, which brought some brief light heartednes to an otherwise very dark story. 

If you want to see great versions. I  highly rate the 1944 movie with Orson Wells though it is another abreviatd version, that movie truly captured the spirit and feel. It is moody dark and mysterious. Another is the fantastic Timothy Dalton version which is most accurate to the book of all the movies taking actual lines right from the  Brontes story.  Dalton's and Clarkes acting is simply superbly sublime! 

However if you are like me, see them all and make your own decision. They all have something to offer and most are entertaining...
