HYPOCRISY ALERT! HYPOCRISY ALERT! I just wanted to get that out of the way right at the start. Not more than twenty-four hours ago I wrote a review waxing philosophic on the state of the modern horror film. I argued that fans shouldn't viciously tear apart every movie they find objectionable because the current spate of horror films is better than no horror films at all. In other words, we should accept the bad with the good rather than stop renting and thus face a potential drought of horror movies. Now that I have gotten that out of the way, I shall proceed to trash "Adam & Evil." I didn't set out to heap scorn on this film when I popped it in the DVD player a few weeks ago, although a cursory glance at the cover art sent a chill of disappointment through my body and I felt my heart sinking. In fact, nothing screams "straight to video" more loudly than a film entitled "Adam & Evil." Well, perhaps something like "Adam & the Bollweevil," or even "Adam & Evil Knievel" might rank as likelier candidates, but you get the idea. "Adam & Evil" does not inspire confidence that I'm about to watch a slasher film on par with Carpenter's "Halloween."

Right from the start of the film we learn the filmmakers have cast us into the ninth circle of clichéd slasher film hell. The movie introduces us to the typical bunch of young airheads getting ready to embark on a camping trip out in the sticks. There is Seth (Kevin Robson), the goofy virgin who tries too hard with the ladies but hopes that the trip will finally cure him of his unwanted condition. Then there is the snotty and narcissistic brunette Yvonne (Erica Cerra). Next up is a staple of every poorly made horror film, the ever important "loud guy" Matt (Brody Harms). Along for the ride are Evelyn (Barbara Kottmeier), Adam himself (Sean Arnfinson), Adam's girlfriend Yvette (Lynsey Brothers), and a few other kids. I am willing to bet that as you look at this list you will notice the Eve connotation in the three girls' names, and that Seth is also a name pulled straight out of the Old Testament. Where Matt comes in is a mystery unless we look to the New Testament. Something tells me the Matthew responsible for the gospel didn't go around announcing to everyone who would listen that he wanted to be known as "Matt." Call it a gut feeling.

Anyway, these dolts head out to the forest for a few fun filled days of gossip, drinking, and romping around in the water. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? See those bright objects moving in your peripheral vision? They're called red flags. Things get a little tense when they stop off at a local bar populated with the usual Hollywood redneck stereotypes in order to ask some questions only to discover that the locals, with the exception of the busty wife of the local sheriff, aren't interested in helping out. Too, a creepy park custodian stumbles into the campground and gives everyone a scare before scurrying back into the forest. If you think we'll see him again before the credits roll, that's one bet I won't take. I should also mention a couple of other potential stresses facing the group. Adam and his friend Matt did something quite idiotic a few years before--namely setting a house ablaze with fireworks that claimed the lives of the family living there--that continues to haunt them to this day. Too, one of the gals worries about a stalker boyfriend she recently broke up with. Both of these scenarios serve to provide us with potential red herrings in order to make the film more suspenseful. I laugh defiantly at such nonsense.

I won't spoil the ending for you, but I will take a few seconds to describe the incredibly banal lead up to the "twist" ending. For a slasher film, "Adam & Evil" is downright puritanical with the red stuff. I felt like a bizarro Clara Peller hollering, "Where's the gore?" every time a killing went down. Seth, for example, perishes in his tent in a particularly bloodless, off camera fashion. A couple of the other kids meet their maker when they run into the killer while floating around on a raft in a pond, again a rather bloodless affair. The presence of a bow and arrows and a shed full of sharp instruments promised great things--a promise unfulfilled, unfortunately. "Adam & Evil" is one of the tamest slashers I have ever seen. What did they do, turn the script over to the Hayes Commission before shooting scenes? Note to aspiring filmmakers: if you're going to make a low budget slasher film that will never see a theatrical release, go over the top with the sauce. At least then you've got a shot at making a cult classic. And another thing: make sure you pick people with a modicum of acting skills instead of the mannequins posing as living beings in this film. Sure, you'll have to shell out a few more bucks, but it's worth it. Remember, unless I'm laughing so hard at the bad acting that the film achieves the coveted "so bad it's good" label, ham handed performances can only hurt you. 

Surprisingly, the DVD comes with a commentary track. Not that you'll want to listen to it, but there it is. We also get a few trailers for three other schlock films: "Contagion," "Hallow's End," and "Asylum Days." Forget about picking up a copy of "Adam & Evil." It's not the sort of film a hardcore horror fan wants friends to see prominently displayed on the movie shelf. There are plenty of other worthier slashers out there that demand your attention.

