A review by the students in ENT 201, Insects on Film (Clemson University, Clemson, SC) Spring 2005

When better to meet your new man than while saving the world from GIANT radioactive grasshoppers! That's what happened to Audrey Ames in Beginning of the End. The black and white movie, produced in 1957, takes place in a small Illinois town called Ludlow, near the big city of Chicago. The main character, Audrey, is a persistent reporter who discovers a new and interesting story on her way to write about a lackluster flying demonstration.  On her way to the flying demo, she is stopped at a roadblock in the town of Ludlow, Illinois.  It seems that the town has been mysteriously destroyed overnight! Following a lead, Audrey goes to the U.S. Department of Agriculture and meets with the project director named Dr. Ed Wainwright in order to find out more about what happened. Dr. Wainwright tells Audrey about a wheat factory that was demolished in the same area before the destruction of Ludlow. Ed, Audrey and Ed's co-worker, Frank, go to investigate the abandoned grain bins. While they are there, a locust comes from the woods and eats Ed's co-worker. They finally realize what is destroying the towns and eating the people-although it's a little too late for poor Frank Johnson.

Determined to resolve the problem, the military enlists the help of Dr. Wainwright, who tries to find a sound frequency that mimics the sound grasshoppers make before they attack. The viewer of this film will be held in utter suspense, until, at a climatic moment, Dr. Wainwright discovers the right frequency and saves the city of Chicago from the military's impending drop of an atom bomb.  The sound is broadcast from a boat in a lake outside of Chicago and the sound attracts the grasshoppers to the lake. As the grasshoppers follow the luring sound, they eventually end up in the lake where they meet a watery death.  The city of Chicago is safe and everyone lives happily ever after (except, sadly, those who were eaten alive by the radioactive grasshoppers).

While this movie has extremely entertaining moments, such as when the grasshoppers scale the skyscrapers of Chicago looking for food-the movie, in general, is a B attempt at science fiction. Also, the movie was produced during the 1950s, resulting in minimal attempts at realistic special effects. The special effects are entertaining at best and add humor more than substance to the movie.  The viewer also might be left with several questions after watching this movie-like why can't the National Guard protect the citizens from grasshoppers? Or, why is it more funny than tragic when Dr. Wainwright's deaf/mute assistance gets eaten alive by a grasshopper?

On a scientific or scholarly level, the movie has several errors. The most important error, in the entomological sense, is the noise that the grasshoppers make throughout the movie. To make the noise that they did in the movie, they would need wings. In the movie though, the characters say that the grasshoppers could not fly because they didn't have wings.  Also, the scientist indicates that the giant vegetables were produced through radioactivity, which allows for photosynthesis to occur both day and night.  For photosynthesis to occur, light must be present, thus raising the question of how the vegetables could continue to expand during the darkness of night.  The inability of the grasshoppers to burn in the fires set by the military reflects an error as well.  In reality, grasshoppers are highly flammable because of their wax-like coating.  Finally, the plot as a whole is completely unrealistic and so bizarre that the movie should be placed in the comedy (opposed to science fiction) genre. While Clemson University research may have led to the evacuation of mole crickets from golf course greens, using technological concepts similar to those presented in the movie, the likelihood that radioactive grasshoppers would eat hundreds of people is improbable.

Beginning of the End is an amusing movie to watch! The acting is traditional of the sci-fi movies of the era. The special effects are mediocre, but the humor, in retrospect, is delightful. If you are a fan of cheesy sci-fi suspense movies, give this flick a try! You will not be disappointed.  Who knows-maybe you'll learn something that could save the world the next time we are attacked by radioactive BUGS
