Clearly this Movie was never intended as High Art, or even a Zombie Gore Fest, although Hyped as such, so it`s probably a bit unfair and easy to take Shots at it, however I think it fails on it own terms.

*** Many Spoilers To Follow ***   Stop Here if you plan to view the entire Film.  

The Premise: A group of stupid Eco Terrorists raid a research facility in London, even though warned by a researcher, release some highly agitated  but otherwise normal looking chimps who then attack and infect them with a  fast acting ( within Seconds ) virus that transforms them into insane, red-eyed murderous really fast creatures who attack and infect other normal humans through bites and even scratches. One drop of their saliva or blood can infect you.  The Plague is let lose ...

The  Hero: Cut to a skinny kid of about 110 pounds with a dopey beard laying naked on a hospital bed, it`s 28 days later and he wakes up, but no one's there. He then wanders around an empty London, in hospital scrubs, looking confused,  yelling " HELLO !! " , " HELLO !! "

There are no bodies outside, and nothing that looks like the remains of one. There are almost 15 Million people in Metropolitan London.  Where did they go I asked myself  ? 

The Supporting Cast: He then wanders into a Church, and finds it full of what looks like sleeping people, he yells " Hello !! "at which time some start screaming and rush at him, in the close-up it`s clear they have Turned and he slugs the Creature-Priest Thing  with his bag of Coke Cans. He gets out , more Stuff Happens, eventually  he meets smart and tough Selena (Naomie Harris) armed with a matchete and Mark (Noah Huntley), armed with a steel bar, who have avoided infection and explain the situation to the dim whitted  Hero, who turns out to be a Bicycle Messager Boy who lives with Mum and Dad. Seems the Creatures come out mostly at Night. Mostly.
 
Hero insists on going Home, Mark & Selena tag along. We find his very middle class Mum & Dad peacefully dead in bed from an overdose of Booze and Pills. Guess they could not live in a World Without Telly... More talk and moaning and tears from Hero who very unwisely lights a candle at night which naturally draws an attack by some Nasties, more fighting, bad guys are killed by Selena and Mark while Hero cowers on floor. Mark gets infected, denies it,  but is chopped by Selena who " can see it in his eyes ". Damm Girl!  if I`m ever in a Zombie Movie I want you along !

Day 2 comes, the pair then wander aimlessly though London chatting away about everything but how to deal with the threat and survival  and at this point I start thinking; wouldn`t it be a good idea to get some Guns ?  preferably full auto, with a lot of Ammo. I mean, although the Creatures are fast, they are stupid, don`t run in packs and make a lot of noise and can be killed and stay dead. Police Stations and Military bases are all over London,  probably deserted , and filled with Guns....but this doesn`t seem to occur to our wandering charactors who trust to a Baseball Bat & Machette which you must get close  to use....emmmm.  

I start squirming a bit in the seat, and for the first time look at my watch, but it`s still kind of ok. So far, it`s still a tight, well made interesting film, with the bloody action well filmed and important to the story line, and mostly believeable in it`s own low buget Post Apocolypitcal setting with taut dialoge that holds my interest.  

Maybe there a reason the Hero is cast as Stupid, or will he grow and learn through experience ?,  maybe, but it better be soon because we are almost 30 minitues into the Film, and it`s getting real hard to identify with him. Or care.

The Suporting Cast 2 :  Night Falls. Our pair see flashing lights on the top of a High Rise, much action ensues, they find more survivors, just a average working type Dad Taxi Driver and his young daughter. More Talk, seems they are out of water and there is a radio broadcast giving direction to go North where the Army ( who usually have Guns )  has set up a Secure Area. Works for me.

After some debate on whether it better to stay where they are, isolated, in fact trapped on top of a Building,  with no water or power or food or real weapons until overrun by Zombies, or travel North to safety , in Daylight and safety ( remember, the Monsters don`t operate in daylight ) this Group of Dopes reluctantaly decide to go North, in a taxi, with no guns..( remember Rule # 3 of Zombie Films: Gun Are Good )..and at this Point In Time this heretofore good film starts to move rapidly downhill in believablity.

The Journey of the Dumb: Piling into Dad`s hack, loaded with junk as if going on a Brighton Holiday, with all, even tough Selena giggling and laughing, off they go. When faced with the choice of driving through a Dark tunnel , where it is obvious that they could be trapped and killed, or another safer route, they naturally chose the Tunnel. Stuff Happens.

Stopping to get gas, the Hero wanders alone into a dark, confined space for no real reason, armed only with a Baseball Bat. More stuff happens.

Stopping for the night, they decide that a picturesque, open field with a few low stones is a great spot and preceed to ......You Guessed It!   Start a Really Big Fire and go to sleep with no one on guard. 
I`m not making this up folks..!!   

Nothing Happens. However they do get to see a Family of White and Black horses running free, and it`s clear that we are no longer watching a Horror / Action Film, with some internal logic but a trite  " Message Film " .

They reach the Army Blockade, but no one is there, in spite of dead everywhere, they proceed to split up and wander around this perfect ambush site for a look see.  More stuff Happens.

After this, the stupid illogical stuff comes fast so this is a good stopping point. At the end we learn from the crazy and sadistic Army Major ( aren`t they all though ) that the Goon`s can`t farm or feed and will likely starve because of it. 
Think about that one. 

We also learn that the Virus is contact borne, NOT Airborne, think hard about that one Dudes !  Since it started in one local it`s very unlikly to have spread thoughout England in 28 days....big Plot holes, dumb ending, 110 pound Stupid Hero becomes Arnold The Terminator in 10 mintues. Girls decide it`s far better to die a gruesom death then Put Out and Lose Their Honor  to what looks like a bunch of boy scouts in Cammos, who are their only protection... really dumb stuff after an excellent start.  Sad....this was a really superior film  for the first 20 mintues.



