When I first purchased the low-budget movie named "Pranks", I didn't really know what to expect.  After all, "Pranks" is a slasher/horror movie from the 80s, a very fertile period for such movies and time period which quite honestly produced some pretty good slasher and horror movies in general...unfortunately, after viewing "Pranks", I can honestly say that this is not one of them.

"Pranks" is about a group of college kids who are staying on campus over the holidays preparing a building which is going to be torn down I think (herein lies another problem in that it is very difficult to understand what is going on in this movie because the acting is so poor).  Obviously, most kids have gone home for Christmas and New Year's except for this group of kids and one "weird" kid who ostensibly becomes the lead suspect as gruesome murders begin to occur.  

The murders remain largely unbeknownst to the characters in the movie, so the director and screenplay writer wanted to give the audience information to which the main characters are not privileged.  The plot is decent enough although the execution is formulaic/generic and lacks luster throughout the film.  One of the reasons for this is the pathetic acting we see in this movie, which really overshadows any kind of merit this movie is able to produce as a horror movie.  

There is no question that "Pranks" is a low budget production to begin with and along with that, there is going to be some subpar acting, but the acting in "Pranks" is borderline-awful!!  It is this acting and poor direction that really makes it difficult for the tasteful horror movie viewer to stay interested.  In fact, the movie comes off very generic in style and substance, and rather predictable and boring.  The only thing that is even remotely interesting are the kills which aren't too bad considering the era in which this movie came out from.  

The Director does use some weak misdirection to attempt to keep the audience guessing as to who the killer is, but the savy horror movie audience can clearly identify the "weird guy" as a "red herring" as another reviewer put it.  In summary, "Pranks" is a poorly executed attempt at a horror movie which suffers from terrible acting, extremely poor production values and flawed direction.  The result is a dull, boring and weak horror movie with a few decent kills...certainly nothing to write home about.  Also, as a final note, the actor who plays the killer does a terrible job and comes off, in the end at least, like a total wuss
