Weird, whacked out interpretation of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland that combines live-action with some stop-action animation to create a creeped out dreamscape.  White rabbit is a sawdust-stuffed real rabbit that escaped from the taxidermy stand, caterpillar is an old stocking with dentures and glass eyes, Mad Hatter is a marionette and March Hare is a wind-up stuffed toy rabbit with a loose button eye.  Devoted Alice fans may have a different reaction, but I found Jan Svankmajer's Alice disturbing and, at times, tedious.
 Everyday objects - the stuff in Alice's room - become the stuff of the dream.  Playing cards become Red Queen and entourage, the White Rabbit has a nasty looking set of incisors and a distressing tendency to shed his sawdust guts, Alice herself becomes her own blank-faced doll.  There's no law that says Alice has to be bright and cuddly, but it sure helps.  Whether intentional or not, Svankmajer's Alice is grim and nightmarish.  

Svankmajer animates figures in motion- real figures, like dolls and stuffed and mounted rabbits and such - but he doesn't animate facial expressions.  Combine that with the flat tone of voice by the film's narrator - ALICE is narrated by the actress who plays Alice, dubbed into English, or course - and the film has a flat, dead feeling.  The film, oddly enough for an animated feature, is leadenly paced. Some scenes seem to run on forever.  The tea party with the Mad Hatter (a marionette) and the March Hare (a bedraggled plush toy bunny with an annoyingly ill-attached button eye) runs on and on, the animation repeating itself way past our limit of patience.  The Mad Hatter wants a new cup of tea (`Change chairs!'), the March Hare scoots around in a wheelchair.  The new seats are taken, the tea is poured, the Mad Hatter wants a news cup of tea (`Change chair!') and on, and on, and on.  Sheesh - thought that scene would never end.

  Look - I'm not that big a fan of Carroll's Alice stories in the first place, but the movie adaptations of his stories - be they Disney's animated movie or the 1933 full-length feature with Ned Sparks as the Catepillar and Sterling Holloway as the frog - all have had something going for them.  Comedy, for one thing. Svankmajer's inspiration is laudable, but his execution is often disappointing.  His Alice is dark, grim, humorless and not everyone's cup of chai.    It's like listening to a quiet sonata played by an acid jazz band - it's familiar enough, probably good enough for the converted, but hard for the uninitiated to embrace and unlikely to win any new fans.    
