This is a bad movie not only because it doesn't fit chronologically in terms of feel and content.  It's like this film attempts to create Turtles psychaitry 101.  Each turtle attempts to work on and/or completely vanquish their weaknesses.  Leo learns to be a better leader by being a better individual ninja, Mikey learns to be caring and heroic in addition to his usual humorous banter, Raphael learns to control his temper by doing peaceful things while befriending children, and I believe that Donny falls in love.  It's been awhile since I've seen this film so I may have that last thing wrong. More than ten years have passed since I saw this stinker and although I don't remember every minute detail the problems that I had with it are enormous.  First, the time travel plotline is a risky stretch for this series even though the conception of the turtles is vaguely sci-fi. The television series and films haven't really gleamed upon that aspect, instead relying on action, humor, and pseudo wisdom from Splinter to pass off a complete and perfect product.  In my opinion the separate storylines of the Turtles is what ruines the movie and that is the result of the time travel plot. In particular, Leo's and Raphael's storylines simply drag the film down in an obvious way by placing them within contexts they should never be in. The pathos in these scenes is just too thick and is best in this series when it was dished out in moments. They just feel heavy handed.  That's not to say Mikey's plotline isn't just as bad, but he's allowed to get away with some of it because the kids are pretty cute, but the scene with the house burning down is right out of a war movie and is not exhilarating at all.
Secondly, the action is just not there as it was before. Sure, it's still pretty bloodless, but the scenes are few and far between and boring. The Turtles have been robbed of their seemingly invincible skills when they work together and the action has been in a more battlefield context so it loses a lot of it's previous effects of catharsis.  It felt like I was watching the History Channel special about the history of the Turtles war in Japan and they lost.  Also, the explosion at the end inside the bell was straight out of a Warner Brothers cartoon and not in character with the turtles. Having the bad guy killed off with the bomb would have been inappropriate too. I'm just the kind of guy who likes(in these kinds of movies) the bad guys to get a death that you don't have to see, or feel the impact of because you can't imagine when their end comes, like falling down a bottomless pit. To me, bombs are out of the question in terms of death.
Thirdly, the humor suffers as much as the action because they have little opportunity to do it and when they do it feels forced and is not funny. An example would be a moment when two of the turtles are following, or running from bad guys and they're going up stairs, lots of stairs and Mikey goes, "This is good for my calfs," I was thinking, "What, is my mom supposed to laugh at that?"  As for the Japanese men who take to American living all too well, none of it is very funny at all and reflecting on it now, it's like saying that just being drunk is funny as opposed to actually doing something funny when drunk, painfully unfunny and pointless.  
Equally as pointless was the use of Casey Jones.  His character in the first movie almost steals the show at times, but in this movie he has nothing to do except watch over the Japanese men. In a way this is also doing to him what the film is doing to the turtles, forcing him to work on things that would be better worked out as moments not plotlines.  In this story the writers would have Casey Jones completely emasculated, possibly for laughs, possibly for moral. The former is definitely not the case, the latter is underdeveloped. It's like he says early in film to the turtles asking where are more people to fight, that's what we're thinking for a majority of the film.  In retrospect, the Japanese men might be a parallel for the turtles showing an example of what the writers probably think the turtles would be like if they were completely worthless.  So he has the turtles learning powerful life lessons away from Splinter to show how meaningful and worthy they are to detractors of the series.  I admit, it's a good idea but way too heavy handed.  The meaning is always better in small doses. 
FINALLY, the song used in the film toward the end with the Japanese men in the bar is such a good song and is very exciting. It was used to great effect in the TV spots for the film to make the audience believe going into the theatre that it was going to an exciting, funny, action-adventure and instead they gave us this stale role reversal film that tarnishes the turtles legacy and insured that there would never be another turtles film. Oh well, at least found out the name of that song
