What a mind-numbingly inept end chapter to a series that began with the greatest horror-comedy of all time, The Re-Animator.  Continuing in his deluded quest to claim the Re-Animator series for his own, and to convince us that he can direct, producer Brian Yuzna has managed the opposite.  Beyond Re-Animator merely confirms what was evident about the Yuzna-directed Bride of Re-Animator, that Yuzna knows nothing about directing actors and story.

As with Dagon, Yuzna seems to have secured financing from Spanish sources for this film.  Unfortunately, the problem is that they also tried to force in a mostly Spanish cast.  This is a story set in Massachusetts, for crying out loud -- why would the warden of the prison, the reporter coming to cover the story, the guards, and a good 90 per cent of the inmates all have Spanish accents?  It wouldn't be as howlingly horrible if these guys could act, but they can't.  Simon Andreu as Warden Brando and Elsa Pataky as love interest Laura Olney get the most screentime of anyone in the cast, but their acting is so bad, and their ADR-afflicted lines so glaringly off, that they manage to sink the film every time they open their mouths.  Yuzna seems to pick his leading ladies based on their willingness to take off their clothes (witness the gratuitous "nurse nipple" scene in this film, or Fabiana Udenio and Kathleen Kinmont in Bride of Re-Animator), and Pataky makes for one of the most unsympathetic love interests I can remember.

But even Pataky and Andreu pale in incompetence next to that blustery, seething mass of bad acting that is leading man Jason Barry.  Based on Yuzna's shoddy history with actors, one might be tempted to blame it on the director, but the fact is that in this film, Jason Barry is incapable of pulling off a single believable moment, basic elementary acting.  His every internal and external beat rings false, his dialogue delivery sounds like a cold reading, and even his basic body movements look like amateur theatre.  Most high-school students do better than this.  Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West, seasoned pro that he is, gamely plays along, but the script puts West's character so far off to the sideline in favour of the vomit-inducing Pataky-Andreu axis that Combs is unable to save this film.

On a strictly technical level, the cinematography looks good, the score is all right (though often too serious-minded for its own good), and the film doesn't look low-budget.  But when the "story" is such a mess and the actors so inept, no amount of slick lighting and camera moves can save a film.  Yuzna really should stick with producing, because on the Stuart Gordon-directed Dagon, at least there were some good moments.  But Beyond Re-Animator is beyond salvaging, possibly the worst film sequel I've ever seen, and way up there in the list of worst films I've ever subjected myself to
