Ahh, "Iron Eagle".  A classic of the 1980's Golan-Globus production mill.  With the current spate of historic/"current" military movies, it's sometimes good to see how Hollywood's come in trying to get the details right.  One can't do much better than using this flick as a baseline.  In case you aren't already familiar with this gem, Louis Gosset Jr. playing a reserve Air Force Colonel, and a teenage kid fly a mission inside an unnamed Arab country -OK I'll name it:  Libya- to rescue the kid's dad.  Pop gets shot-down when he's intercepted in international waters, but the US refuses to do anything more than diplomatic pressure.  

The kid and Lou Gosset meet up when the kid's challenged to race the local bully with his PLANE while the bully's using his dirt bike.  Suffice it to say he wins and impresses his babe; he doesn't get his slot at the USAF Academy, though. You gotta take the bad with good I guess.  When the words on Dad get back to the family, this kid uses his base "network" to get access to imagery, enemy air defense data, and two F16s carrying a B52's worth of ordinance.  All of this being done by his friends exploiting the dim bulbs who are their parents, no less.  (If only strike planning was this easy.)  Of course, the kid has flown training missions with his dad, and has a boatload of simulator time, so he's a natural to fly the mission.  He convinces Gosset to go along with him, and his two-ship is on the way.  The flying scenes are nothing spectacular, with obviously Israeli F16s playing the good guys, and Kfirs (modified Mirages) acting as MiGs.  Cockpit scenes are completely the imagination of the set designer; I'm guessing he never was anywhere near a real aircraft.  These are especially dated now as many computer flight sims are pretty darn accurate in cockpit, flight, and combat models.  Anyway, lots of explosions on the way in, Lou gets hit and aborts and our hero must press on alone-go figure.  He manages to talk with the evil dictator directly and get his dad on the runway for him to land (!) and pick him up.  More silliness ensues as he launches weapons on the ground, taxi's out and takesoff.  He kills the bad guy and heads home to find Lou punched out and was rescued.  Rather than the prison sentence for espionage, and theft of government property that Lou, the kid, his pals and the idiots they exploited on base should've got, he gets his slot at the Air Force Academy.  The end.

Overall, I guess Lou's performance was fairly good, but everyone else performed at the grade-B level this flick is.  Note especially a very young Shawnee Smith as one of the kid's buds.  Worth seeing for laughs, and as a film version of a kid's pilot fantasy.
