I was intrigued by "Satan's Little Helper" due to several things namely its Halloween theme, which I'm a big sucker for, and the heralded return of Jeff Lieberman to the horror scene.  Lieberman made 4 minor cult horror films in the 70's and 80's, the last one being 1987's "Remote Control".  You would think that Lieberman, with all this time off from filmmaking would have spent his share of time carefully observing horror films in order to craft a good one when he would choose to return.  Well, it almost feels like Lieberman is stuck in some kind of time warp, as this movie looks like it came straight from the 80's due to how cheesy, trashy, cheap and godawful it is.  Many, myself included, look upon the 80's slasher craze with fond nostalgia but this is one film that reminds us how truly bad some of those films could be.

The "plot" revolves around a 10-year old boy who is a huge fan of the video game "Satan's Little Helper".  It's now Halloween season and his mom buys him a devil costume, which he wears proudly.  One afternoon, he spots a tall man wearing an equally devilish costume dragging bodies around to serve as Halloween decoration stiffs for the front of his house.  He becomes enamored with the tall & mute masked man and asks him if he can be his helper.  The two then go on a rampage throughout the small suburban community, as the masked man kills people randomly in gruesome fashion all the while the boy (whose intelligence quotient appears to be much closer to a 5-year old than a 10-year old) inexplicably thinks it's all still a game of make believe.

If you think the plot sounds bad that's nothing compared to how poorly this movie is executed.  Nearly everything about it is god-awful from the camcorder film quality, to the laughable gore effects (including the least-ever convincing intestines I've ever seen) and especially, the acting. The 10-year old boy, who appears in nearly every scene, makes a run for most annoying child actor in recent memory.  The acting on just about everyone's part is bad, and the characters all come across as being mentally retarded from the clueless boy to the mute villain who kills for no apparent or explained reason, the flaky sister and the eccentric, kooky mother.  There is not a single character we can give a darn about and we don't care the least bit when someone gets killed.  Granted, dumb characters who do dumb things in horror movies are a dime a dozen, but these ones truly take the cake.  

I'm a little baffled as to why this movie has gotten its share of enthusiastic reviews.  I'm thinking some people are going to put this in the "so good it's bad" category but I'm not having it.  Some of the scenes in the movie that were meant to be "funny", such as the parking lot scene where the villain and boy knock off a pregnant woman, an elderly lady, and a stroller carrying a kid, are downright appalling.  The villain himself is a bad joke, as he doesn't utter a single word throughout the film, instead delivering thumbs-up signs to the kid and wagging his finger.  Cheesy?  Heck, this film is cheesier than a Black Diamond factory.  "Satan's little helper" comes across as the work of a first-time wannabe horror amateur with no budget, not something from a guy in his fifties considered a cult filmmaker.  To sum up how I feel about this film, I will repeat a line that I see all over Amazon that I usually feel redundant but somehow I find to be entirely fitting for this movie.  DO NOT RENT OR BUY THIS GARBAGE!! 

