This movie works if one of the following four descriptions applies to you.

1.	You think Kevin Zegers is hot, you want to see anything he's in, and the swimming scene in Transamerica was the best thing to happen to you since you first had a peanut butter sandwich.
2.	You think Nick Carter is hot, and want to see if he can act. (He can't.)
3.	You like horror movies, no matter how bad they are, simply because it's a horror movie.
4.	For some reason unbeknownst to man you are interested in what Judge Reinhold is doing with his career.

Within the first five minutes of the film I had it pegged as a Friday the 13th style movie. Within the first five minutes, it was. Then it expanded a bit, and we saw some interplay between father and son, and also some rather useless and pointless teenage romantic angst.

In this rendition, the headless horseman actually had a head. It was a pumpkin. And it growled. There was also some serious fire that he was capable of - apparently - in the beginning. This fire was not with him when he needed it the most. And, of course, he used a sword to decapitate victims

Lucky, then, that Kevin Zegers' character was on the fencing team (odd for such a small town to have a fencing team, don't you think?), and when he was able to get his hand on a sword at the very end - well - you get the picture.

Judge Reinhold was a riot in the 80s. In this movie he was a football coach who talked about how things were when he played ball. I can't imagine a universe in which Reinhold played the kind of football he was talking to his players about. He would have died during his first game. He did, though, walk around the house with a football jersey on, and some silly pajama pants, so I guess that fit the role of a football coach. Still.

All-in-all, I was certain that this review would be a one star review. Then it came out of the "Jason woods", and became marginally better.

I was interested in the film for two reasons. First, I'm still waiting to see if Kevin Zegers can act. I have a feeling that he's going to break out of the horror mold he's in and become a lesser Jamie Lee Curtis. Unfortunately, in Transamerica they had him play a petulant teenager. They didn't give him room - i.e., they didn't write anything for him - that would have allowed him to express any range. Either that or he doesn't have any. Second, I do like horror films, even bad ones. Which this was. Just because I enjoy bad horror films doesn't make it a good movie. Which this wasn't.

I was just about to post this review, then saw the three, four, and five star reviews. I'm sorry - what were you guys smoking when you watched this? Are you kidding me? As a bad horror film, this succeeds. But bad horror films don't get three, four, or five star reviews. It's insane.
