Well, i just got done watching this movie and actually went out of my way to write this review.  Truthfully, i didn't catch the last 20 or so minutes because i found myself doing other things around the house and could  care less about what happend.  

The trailers and the DVD cover of this movie is very misleading.  One would think that they are going to see something from a great genre of horror movies about zombies and a group of people doing whatever it takes to survive.  I'm a big fan of Romero movies and loved 28 days later so i thought this movie would be a cool australian take-off.  I couldn't be more wrong.  Nothing in the movie makes sense from the start.  The entire movie is over the top starting with the actors.  Everybody has entirely too much dialogue except for the main character who hardly says two words during the entire movie.  She looks lost, confused, and out of her league.  Other characters include a local pilot and his pregnant girlfriend, a "wacky" police sgt with his asthmatic partner, the bait & tackle clerk who never screams during the entire movie, and our heroin character who won the local beauty contest.

The movie takes place in a small town in austrialia somewhere.  When meteors strike the earth (and slam into people), it unleashes a germ which causes people to become zombies.  Our main characters all meet up and try to survive.  However, aliens are involved so the story goes from a survival story to beams of light dressed in capes and floating around right in the middle of a big battle.  The viewer is left to wonder what's going on at first, but as the dialogue and story become unbearably bad, you find yourself not caring as the minutes tick by.  I honestly couldn't tell you much else because it's just so terrible that I just simply couldn't take a minute more.  Bad acting, bad dialogue, over the top effects, and some of the worst camera work i've ever seen.  This movie apparently took two years to make... imagine if they only had one???

Another portion of this movie that makes me ill is the bait & tackle charater.  He shows up out of nowhere and saves the heroin's life like a bad clint eastwood impression (with big hat covering his eyes to boot).  Then, he walks away.  When he appears again, he's able to do these matrix style backflips (digging his "spurs" into the wall/ceiling) and making two pistols jump over his back and land directly into his hands.  Does this guy ever miss?  What do you think?  He manages to kill about 50 zombies with his two pistols while hanging from the wall upside down.  Not bad for a bait and tackle salesman living in the backwoods of australia!  

If you dig the gore, this one is ok... but again, wayyyy over the top.  I had no idea that one bullet from a .45 could blow someone in half.  Our characters are so clueless that it actually takes them 3/4 of the movie to figure out how to shoot them in the head.  I personally counted several scenes where a character is shooting a police revolver and somehow manages to get 13 shots out of a 6 shooter.  Someone get NASA on the phone and explain how you can do that because i just don't get it.  

The absolutely worst part of this movie, without a doubt, is the music.  It never stops!  There's never a scene without music for some reason!  And it just makes what you're watching seem absolutely cheesy!  It reminded me of a 1950's serial/pirate swashbuckling kind of thing with guys swinging on ropes and jumping across a gorge kind of thing.  The soundtrack is truly the worst i've ever heard with extra cheese included.  Did they use up their budget on the effects?  Probably!  I found myself wishing that i could mute the music during the film!  

If you're a fan of good monster / zombie movies, i beg you to pass this one by and keep on moving.  It doesn't make sense, the story is amazingly weak, the plot is... well, there isn't one... you'll wish you could have your 2 hours back.  I know i do!!!

