Shekhar Kapur's vision of A.E.W. Mason's The Four Feathers is well done visually, but unfortunately much of the original story is lost to create a more fast-paced and action-packed plot. While the basic story is kept, many small details seem to have been needlessly changed. For those who don't know, The Four Feathers is supposedly about Harry Feversham, a man enlisted in the army. When Harry is informed he will be sent to war in the Sudan, he hides this information and quietly resigns from the army to be with his fiancé, Ethne. However, life with Ethne is soon changed when he receives three white feathers from his army colleagues. Explaining to Ethne what he has done and that the feathers are a symbol of cowardice do not help Harry; in fact, she tears a feather out of her fan to make four feathers. Harry then sets out to regain the lost respect of his friends through helping them, in an ultimate goal to regain the respect of Ethne.

For the most part, only minor details are changed from the novel to the movie; for example, the way that Harry's friend, Jack Durrance goes blind, or the fact that Harry disguised himself as a Greek, not as an Arab. The change that seems most prominent, however, is the fact that in the film, Jack Durrance knows of Harry's resignation from the beginning. This subverts the whole quest that Jack undertakes to find out the truth in the novel. In addition, the entire `battle' between the warden of the House of Stone of Omdurman and Harry and Abou Fatma was created solely for action value in the film. However, despite this addition of action, the movie still seems to drag at points.

Films are almost never completely accurate when following a novel; that is why they are only based on them. However, as I've said, a lot of the changes made seem senseless. I would recommend this film to someone who has not read the book or who does not mind liberal film interpretations of novels, if they have an hour or two to waste. Those looking for a movie to keep them on the edge of their seats would be advised to find something else.
