"House of Mirth" is one of the most depressing movies I've ever seen.

To be clear: I've seen movies like, oh, say, "Schindler's List," or "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter" that treat tragic events, either in the macrocosm or the microcosm, that did not leave me depressed. Rather, they were powerful works of art that moved me and made me think.

"House of Mirth" deals with tragic themes, including human society's ability to destroy its own, and the power of hypocrisy and hypocrites. It wasn't, though, moving or thought provoking. 

I wasn't moved by Gillian Anderson's portrayal of a betrayed woman who lives by her own sense of honor. I didn't believe Gillain Anderson's portrayal of a betrayed woman who lives by her own sense of honor.

Rather, I was bored. I kept wanting the film to go faster. It's a great irony; Edith Wharton's novels are real page turners. Quick, to the point. Hollywood has yet to adapt one of her books in a way that honors this quality. 

"House of Mirth" has gorgeous clothing and sets. I didn't care about anybody onscreen, though. I didn't believe anybody onscreen.

I felt that this movie had a misanthropic agenda, and it moved its players around as if they were chess pieces, as if to prove these points: people are hypocrites, see! People are insincere, see! If a person has any decency at all, that person is destroyed, see!

I would tend to agree with all of the above points. So ... why do I need to watch this movie?

Also, as a woman, who, as Lily Bart was meant to, has lived her life by her own code of honor and paid the price for that, I felt that this movie, no less than the Polite Society it depicts so brutally, betrayed Lily Bart.

Lily Bart is just a step above a passive masochist in this film. She all but participates in her own destruction. You want, just once, for her to show some initiative, some intelligence, some ability to create her own fate.

The film denies her those abilities. In this crippling of Lily Bart, the film seems to hate her as much as polite society does.

Movies like "Gone with the Wind" that depict spunky heroines occasionally winning, and occasionally gaining some power, imo, are much easier to watch. 

One might argue that such films are not realisitic. I don't know. Even we real-life Lily Barts have our resources, and our triumphs. 

And, again, watching Lily Bart in "House of Mirth" slowly being eroded onscreen was not a feminist experience for me. It was more of an art house snuff film that utterly disempowered its female heroine.
