If you burn lots of calories in your activities, this high energy food could give you a lift.  There are 250 calories packed into this little 2.4 ounce bar, which is advertised to be at least 70% organic.  This bar is advertised to be for athletes first, and as a casual snack second.  If you are overweight and trying to drop pounds, you can skip this snack and move back to unbuttered popcorn.

When I opened this bar I noticed that it looks like compressed goop.  However, the compressed goop tastes pretty good.  The texture is much like a granola bar, though more moist than a granola bar.  The black cherry part of the black cherry almond is understated.  There are dried cherries in this mix rather than artificial cherry flavor, which is a big plus.  I was unable to find anything in this bar that implied it was artificial, which is an even bigger plus.

One thing that confused me a little is that the bar is advertised to have no wheat and no dairy, but the label on the bar states that there may be trace amounts of dairy.  I guess they either knew there might be a very small amount of dairy or they were hedging themselves because of possible cross-contamination from some other process.  In either case, vegens consider whether trace amounts of dairy makes this an acceptable product.  The label also states that there may be traces of peanuts.

This bar also contains 20% of the daily recommended dietary fiber, which means drinking lots of water is a good idea when eating this bar.  There are also lots of vitamins and trace elements, which may be a good thing unless you take vitamin supplements, in which case you may need to consider whether you are getting too much of a good thing.

Clif Bars could be a casual snack, but the ingredients and their marketing really suggest that they are geared toward individuals that are looking for a healthy energy boost in high energy activities.  If you fall into that category, which could include hiking, climbing, bicycling, running, jogging, and other similarly strenuous activities, then this bar could be a good way of packing a big punch in a small package.

Enjoy!
