Doug Ritter and his foundation, Equipped to Survive, has come up with a very economic method to equip yourself and your family with an emergency kit. It is small enough to carry unnoticed in a pocket, yet fully functional.

Although you can control the amount of certain items if you put together your own kit (something of a rite of passage among the survivalists/emergency preparedness folk), I spent twice as much putting together a comparable kit. The military issue sparklite and tinder-quick, Fox-40 whistle, and Rescue Flash signal mirror alone could cover the cost of the kit and they are all top notch gear. This pack is extremely high quality through and through, from choice of equipment to packing and instructions. I recommend looking at the ETS website at the slideshow of how such a kit is put together and what Doug Ritter himself recommends that you add to the kit (the pouch can hold a few more small items such as water purification tabs).

The Pocket Survival Pack is an amazing value. I've purchased all of the items separately, and just the shipping or driving to pick up 3 or 4 of the items probably covers half the cost! If you are lucky enough to get everything at one store, you'd be hard pressed to get the entire kit as cheap as this. I know people who have purchased this kit to take the parts for their own self-built survival kits! That's how economical it is. Plus, if you buy this PSP, a portion of the proceeds goes to the ETS non-profit group which gives free survival consulting to deployed troops and is actively involved in improving survival equipment and standards. In fact, Doug Ritter is the only consumer advocate working with the governing body on personal locator beacons used in marine, aviation, and remote travel.

The kit itself comes in a waterproof container. I found it to be a bit tight when closing back up, but there is actually some room for more items. All components are of the highest quality. It's lightweight and I never notice it in a pocket. With the recommended ETS or similar keychain LED flashlight and a good pocket folding knife, you have a complete survival kit that rivals ones costing $100+. These are cheap enough to get one for each car and any camping/hiking/marine/aviation gear you might have. I highly recommend this PSP. I'm not affiliated with ETS, but I've come to appreciate their no-nonsense advice and forums. And if this was a bad kit, I'd still say so. I give it 5 stars, great value for the price and it really could save your life
