When I first tried this Marshmallow Vanishing Crème in a sampler kit, I purchased five more kits and then a 1.5 ounce glass container of this product. Can I say it is addictive? 

Yes, I guess it does have a banana cream pie scent and the texture is similar to a banana cream pie topped with whip cream. To say this is decadent is an understatement. You will be very tempted to slather your entire body in a good helping of this cream. 

Fortunately, it goes a long way and absorbs extremely well. In fact, that is why they call it "vanishing" crème. The ingredient list is impressive and contains rose water, mango butter, beeswax, grapeseed oil, rosehip seed oil, Vitamin E, marshmallow extract, willowbark extract, calendula flower extract, and a heady fragrance.

Grapeseed oil is one of the most powerful antioxidants and is high in proanthocyanidins, a group of bioflavonoids that are superior because they are water soluble. This ingredient also prevents skin cell damage caused by pollution and sun exposure.

"Marsh Mallow" is actually a pink flowering herb found in marshes and damp meadows. It has been used for centuries as a food and a medicine. The leaves and roots secrete an emollient fluid with healing properties for inflamed skin. In the past, people boiled the roots in wine to make a cough remedy.

I found this luscious creamy dreamy product to be healing for the body and mind. Not only will you feel comforted by nature, your skin will be baby soft and this product can be used for all-over body healing. The silver lid and glass jar have an unusually cute appeal. 

If you love this product, you might want to try the Pore-refining mask, Evening Primrose Overnight Crème and the very unique parsley blemish stick. To take luxury to the next level, try the Shea Butter Decollete Crème on your feet, hands or all over your entire body. What an amazing line of products. They heal, protect and soothe your mind.

I'm still trying all the Burt's Bees products, and love how these products make me feel. They add a level of protection to your skin care routine and the clay mask I recently tried cleaned my pores like a dream.

~TheRebeccaReview.co
