I'm cursed with sensitive skin and a tough beard.  I'll break out or rash up if my skin gets irritated, so I have to carefully prep for shaving.  After years of trial and error, I've finally settled on a good shaving cream system: Cetaphil Skin Cleanser for a base, then Kiss My Face Moisture Shave as a supplement.  For post-shave comfort and to prevent breakouts, I use a product like Clean&Clear Dual-Action Oil-Free moisturizing lotion.  However, the weak link up until now has been the actual shaver.  With the Gillette Fusion Power, I've finally found the right one.

I've used Gillette since they gave my unit free razors during the first Gulf War (I was in the Marines at the time).  They've gotten the job done, but a 3-blade system is ultimately inadequate for my beard and skin type.  It doesn't take long for the blades to start cutting my face and neck, especially since I take forever to change blades.  I dreaded looking in a bathroom mirror at work and seeing dried blood spots (not to mention getting blood stains on my collar).  Electric shavers don't work for me either - too hard on my skin, and I'd have a five-o'clock shadow around 2PM.

So, when I saw Gillette touting their new 5-blade system, I gave it a shot.  I was initially skeptical about the powered aspect due to my issues with electric shavers.  But the Fusion Power is the happy exception.  At first I struggled a bit getting the battery cap off of the end.  But once I mastered that maneuver and got the battery in, I was set.  It takes one AAA-battery that seems to last a decent interval (the low-battery indicator is a nice touch).  And even if the Fusion Power runs out of juice, you can still shave with it.  The shaver glides over my face, and the vibration feels good - kind of like a pick-me-up in the morning.  The five blades really nail my beard, and even tough spots like my chin and jaw line remain cut-free.  I also like the one-blade trimmer on top - very handy for evening out my sideburns and zapping those stray whiskers right under my nostrils.

My only issue is the expense of the blades.  But I can make them last a lot longer than the old 3-blade razors while still getting a great shave.  And most importantly, I rarely get those annoying cuts anymore (if I do, it's more because of rushing or clumsiness than anything else).  Ultimately, the result is worth the higher price.  The Gillette Fusion Power is the best shaver I've ever tried.  Highly recommended
