I bought an epilator because I was tired of shaving my legs and waxing was just too expensive for me.  I've had my epilator for several weeks now and I am already seeing amazing results!  

I used it for the first time on my legs.  I'm not going to lie...It was painful.  I just made sure to go slowly, pausing every few inches, and making sure my skin was pulled as tightly as I could get it.  Eventually, I was able to get most of the thick, dark hairs off of my legs.  

**Please know that the Epilator is not an immediate "cure-all".  Hair grows in stages, so as soon as you get rid of some hairs, several more grow in behind them.  (Eventually you can probably get rid of most to all of them, but it will take some time.)  Because of this, it is good to try epilating a couple of times a week.  Since it's winter, I just let it all grow out so that the Epilator can get more hairs.  However, when new hair grows in, I am finding that they are thinner and blonde instead of dark brown.  It doesn't hurt nearly as much to pull those out!  I also know that I'll be able to do this in the spring and summer because the hair is lighter.  My legs are smoother and I don't get razor burn!  Right after epilating, sometimes I do experience a little irritation but, unlike razor burn, it goes away after just a short time.    

Another neat thing is that, unlike waxing, the Epilator can grab the teeny tiny almost invisible hairs.  This gives your skin a smoother feel and it gets hairs at the beginning stages of growth!  I used to have to wait two weeks or so for my hair to grow long enough to be waxed.  Now, I get smoother skin just about whenever I want to!    

I was a little nervous at first about spending money on a product I had not heard much about.  With the exception of the few reviews I read online, I was pretty much in the dark.  I went ahead and went for it, then realized that this thing paid for itself in about two weeks!  Not only have I epilated my legs, I have also used it under my arms, on my upper lip, and on my bikini line.  The results have been better than I could have imagined!!  

Again, I'm not going to lie...OUCH!!!!!  Epilating under my arms hurt initially and they were sore for a few days (I have very thick hairs).  However, I got the majority of the hairs and after the first time, I realized that I'm never going to have to shave again!  Yes, some little blonde hairs grow back, but they are ALL thinner and much less painful.  In fact, sometimes it tickles a little.  :o)  I epilate there once to twice a week (about a five minute job if you're being careful, two if you're in a hurry) and I have smoother underarms!  

I used to get my upper lip waxed about once a month.  Now I just epilate.  It hurts, but just for a second.  Plus, I keep up with it so instead of 50 hairs being pulled at once with hot wax, I only need to pull 5-10 each time.    

**A word of caution: Our skin is more sensitive in some areas, so if you choose to epilate around the bikini line, be careful.  I managed to give myself a burn from going too slowly with the rotating "blade".  Now I just make sure that I don't leave it in one place for more than a couple of seconds.  If I miss some hairs, I come back another time to get them.

This epilator comes with a little loufa pad to help reduce ingrown hairs (I've only had a few and the pad fixes them) and a little cleaning brush.  The epilator is very easy to clean.  The top (dark purple section) pops off and you run it under hot water.  When it dries, you put it back on.  **Note, the epilator does not store hairs inside of it.  When they are pulled out, they tend to either gather on the front of the epilator (I stop periodically to wipe them off) or they go flying.  I sit on a towel when epilating to catch most of the hairs.  

I hope this review was helpful to you with your decision about buying an epilator.  I am very satisfied with this product and I recommend it to anyone who has at least a little pain tolerance and really wants to get rid of hair stop having to shave all the time.  

**Are the few minutes of pain worth it???  ABSOLUTELY!  :o)

   

