I have not been overweight for many years, but I still have that last 5-10 pounds that just will not stay off. I have several issues with eating - I tend to eat very large portions when I am really enjoying a meal, I snack a lot, and I have a major sweet tooth. This product has taken care of all 3 problems.

I am currently taking 1000 mg 3 times a day. I plan to cut back a little once I'm at my target weight. I find that this dosage will generally suppress my appetite and/or urge to eat for 3-6 hours. 

It's odd for me to experience hunger without cravings and a frantic urge to eat...but that's what the pills do for me. Most of the time I can tell I'm hungry only because my stomach is growling and it has been several hours since my last meal...but I don't feel like I have to eat anything right away. I can go grocery shopping when I'm hungry and not make poor choices, and even when I finish up at the gym after work I don't feel ravenous anymore.

I definitely get full faster. It doesn't feel like it used to when I overate, I just can tell I've eaten enough and I stop. What a concept! And often I can just have a bite or two and be good for another 30-60 min if I'm too busy to sit down and eat. 

My urge to snack has really been curbed. I still have one or two snacks most days, but they are much smaller and often more healthy. Now I can actually stay up several hours past dinner without making another mini-meal, which I used to do almost every night.

Hoodia does not completely kill my appetite, it suppresses it quite a bit but more than anything it takes away all of my cravings. That is definitely my favorite part - I used to crave sugar from morning until night practically every day. Since my first day on these pills, the only time I've had sweets is when someone has offered me something. I'm able to eat just a little and not wish for ten times more. It does not occur to me to go to the vending machine at work anymore, or buy candy when I'm shopping. 

Maybe even more than the weight loss, the emotional benefits of these pills are incredible for me. I'm no longer berating myself constantly for overeating or having too much candy or dessert. I'm not depressed all day anymore because my favorite pants have gotten snug, and all I can think about is why I don't have the willpower to prevent it.

I would DEFINITELY recommend this product, especially to anyone who has issues with food like I do
