I have a preemie who's temperature needs to be monitored pretty much constantly.  At every diaper change we were taking axial temps with one of those standard digital thermometers.  TORTURE!  Took forever and baby screamed her head off the whole time.  Then my sister got this thermometer for us and it is fabulous.

What we like:
1. When baby is screaming, the light blinks and then goes solid when temp is done, great when you can't hear the beep.
2. It truly does take a second unless baby is thrashing about.
3. Produces a long beep when you are taking your own temperature, no guesswork about when it's finished which is an improvement over earlier models.

What we don't like:
1. Preemies have TINY ear holes.  So we have had to wait till our baby's ear was big enough to be able to use this thing.
2. The lens covers are a pain to switch out and keep on hand, it would be nice if there were a way to just sanitize the lens after each use.
3. We see a discrepancy of almost one degree between the left and right ear which makes us question the accuracy somewhat.  The enclosed brochure explains various causes of this, but that doesn't help when trying to determine what exactly your baby's temperature is.

We have done both the axial and ear temp and found that the right ear on our baby corresponds with the digital thermometer's reading on her armpit.  However, the enclosed chart shows the variances between oral, rectal, axial, and ear temperatures which make it somewhat confusing.  So we alternate between the digital and the ear thermometer just to be sure.

I personally WOULD recommend this thermometer for older babies and kids, just be sure that you test it out when kids are healthy to figure out your baseline and what is normal.  It takes some investigation to develop your method based on what your needs are, but it is a nice, quick to use product and my family LOVES using it for adult temperature readings.  We think we will be happier with it when baby is bigger and we are using it for sick readings only
