Flax is a plant. The seeds in the flax plant are filled with flaxseed oil, (sometimes called linseed oil). The seeds contain fatty oils called alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) and linoleic acid. ALA is the omega-3 oil in flaxseed. Flaxseed contains both omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids. Flaxseed is nature's richest storehouse of omega-3 fatty acids, and contains more than twice as much omega-3 oil as fish oils, and it costs less , ounce for ounce. Flax also contains other important substances like lignans, which may protect against some types of cancer. The husks of the seeds are rich in mucilage. Both the seed oil and mucilage have many nutritional and therapeutic properties. 

There are many potential benefits from taking Flax seed oil:

Flaxseed Oil lowers cholesterol levels, thereby improving cardiovascular health and lessening the risk of arteriosclerosis. 

Flaxseed also contains plant nutrients like phytoestrogens. These are natural estrogen-like substances that can lessen the discomfort of menopause.

Flaxseed oil may lower high blood pressure.

Flaxseed oil helps some people improve their psoriasis and eczema, as it has anti-inflammatory properties. Flaxseed may also reduce the itching, swelling, and redness associated with certain skin disorders such as acne.

Flaxseed oil has a positive effect on rheumatoid arthritis due to its ability to calm inflammation. 

Flaxseed reduces LDL (low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol (the body's "bad cholesterol") and lowers triglyceride levels. Research shows that flaxseed oil gives much better protection against heart attacks than canola oil or olive oil. 

Taking flaxseed may reduce cancer risk. This is because flaxseed contains the richest sources of lignan building blocks, which play a major role in preventing cardiovascular diseases and cancer. New research indicates that the lignans in flaxseed have both short-term and long-term protective effects against colon cancer. 

Nature Made Flaxseed Oil is a quality source of flaxseed oil, as the company is well-known and reputable. One tip: keep your flaxseed oil away from light and heat, as both degrade the oil. 

The usual beneficial dose of Flaxseed Oil is 2-3 capsules once per day taken with a meal.  

Jim "Konedog" Koenig 

