I bought this product specifically because it was originally described as being/having "mood-brightening Natural Spectrum light." I thought it would help on the gloomy Pacific Northwest winter days. I got it on a Friday sale price, so it seemed like a good value for the product description given here. 

The lamp just arrived (a few days ago - when I originally submitted this review), and the product's FAQ sheet states this product is "designed only to provide excellent quality light for daily tasks and hobbies. This lamp does *not* offer the correct level of light intensity specified by the National Institute of Mental Health for the treatment of Seasonal Affective Disorder (S.A.D.). 

The product literature packed with the lamp has no mention at all that this product offers "mood-brightening" light. Because of this glaring misrepresentation, I am currently debating whether to the return the lamp.

I agree with the other reviewer that the adhesive labels (there are two) are VERY sticky and difficult to remove completely. I used a combination of methods to remove the adhesive residue. 

And I agree with the comments about the company name being printed on the front of the lamp. When I saw it in the picture, I thought it had to be some kind of company watermark or logo for the stock photo ONLY, so I was shocked to see "Verilux" actually printed/embossed into the lamp housing, in a very prominent location on the front of the lamp. Very cheesy, for a lamp of this price point and quality.

If you're looking for a "clean" bright light, in a stylish, portable lamp, this is not a bad choice. But if you're looking for a full-spectrum light that does offer some light "therapy," this is probably the wrong choice. The company does have other, "therapeutic" lighting options, but at a higher price point. 

Nov 1, 2006 UPDATE - I was concerned enough about the original, misleading product description that I submitted my concerns to Amazon. I now see that the description had been revised since submitting those concerns. I want to thank Amazon for their very prompt response in correcting the product description, which should help other buyers make a more-informed decision.
