This product was nothing short of miraculous for me.
I'm in my early forties now with skin that has been trouble-prone since I hit my teens...and while I have used various and sundry products to control breakouts from acne and rosacea (which started about age 40), including retin A cream,  topical and systemic antibiotics, and every sort of over the counter cleanser, these treatments helps but if anything my breakouts were coming closer together and getting more severe as I aged.

I've been using the mask for about 8 mos and my skin is the nicest and most healthy it's been in many years....I had rapid improvement of both my regular acne and the rosacea on top of it.

Caution - I've never had any benzoyle peroxide sensitivity. People who are irritated by benzoyle peroxide probably won't have the same kind of experience I do.  

BP creams have always helped, but were not as effective as this mask, which really gets down in the pores.

I use it heavily.  I apply it either before I brush my teeth or before I get in the shower.  It is cool and refreshing.  I usually let it sit as a mask for a few minutes before I rinse off, although sometimes I use it just as a cleanser when my skin needs freshening...like after I've walked through a cloud of someones cigarette smoke.

It leaves my skin very, very  clean,  and *soft.*  I have never had any dryness or irritation from this product at all...indeed, my skin has become less sensitive and reactive and is calm and feels good when it used to be angry and irritated all the time.  The dryness others warn of has never been an issue for me.  it makes my skin feel like normal healthy skin.

Working outside in the heat or cleaning in a dusty, dirty environment used to cause my skin to break out.  Now before cleaning or working I will actually put a bit of this mask on- wne I am done,  my skin is none the worse the wear for the activity... I stay clear and smooth.  I guess it blocks the irritants or stops the sebaceous glands from making my pores either block or become a haven for bacteria.

I do not have serious acne all over my body...just a very trouble prone face for most of my adult life.   The benzoyle peroxide mask has ended this trouble for me.  I simply smooth a couple times a day for about the time it takes to brush teeth, and wash it off.  No prescriptions, no panicked spot treatment of painful blemishes or pustules...just perfect skin for me.  Amazing!!!
