I found this product after reading a review of it on hairboutique.com.  The length of my hair seemed to have reached a plateau just below my shoulders and after year seemed to have grown no longer.  I decided to try this product to see if it worked.  As hair growth is normally clocked at an 1/8 of an inch per month, I decided to monitor the results in my own little "clinical test."  This was actually pretty easy because I colour my hair so I'd easily be able to see how much growth there was each month.  

I ordered a box of Viviscal for which I paid $49 for (average price on the web) and the was set to take the first pill the following morning (the box recommends 2 per day).  I coloured my hair the night before so that in one month I'd be able to accurately measure how much growth there had been by looking at the growth since the colouring.

Results:

I didn't really notice anything until around the 2 week time frame.  I noticed my nails were growing very fast/very long.  I have weak nails that split easily and they barely seem to grow at all.  It was very noticeable because I use the computer all day and the nail growth was causing my fingers to constantly slip on the keyboard.  Never having great nails, I was pretty happy to see this.  My curiosity was also getting the better of me as I could see the roots of my hair pretty clearly which was unusual at 2 weeks after coloring.  I took the tape measure and measured almost 1/4 of an inch in hair growth.  This would mean 1/2 inch per month and 6 inches per year.  I was pretty excited because although the numbers seemed small, it was twice the rate my hair normally grows.  But I also noticed something else.  My hair was becoming unusually greasy.  Because I have very dry hair, I normally only wash it 2-3 times a week.  But every other day it seemed much more greasy than normal.  Hmmm.

Well, at the 1 month time frame I measured my hair growth and it was exactly 3/4 of an inch.  Not only that but I was constantly trimming my nails at this point.  I was totally ecstatic.  But also by this point, I was washing my hair every day - it was no longer dry and brittle, it was much softer, but there was no way I could miss a day of washing it or it would be greasy.

So - the conclusions I have reached from my test was this:

1.  Yes, Viviscal works.  It caused my hair growth to be stimulated at over twice the speed.

2.  Viviscal also makes your nails much stronger and grow much faster.

3.  Viviscal makes your hair greasy, causing you to have to wash it every day - and then it's fine.

It did not cause any extra hair growth anywhere else, which I thought a bit strange (though good!!!).

I recommend this product
