I have to say that I have been converted. For over 15 years now I lived with a razor. I have a pretty thick beard and it grows fast too. I am the kind of guy that gets a 5 o'clock shadow at noon. I have used every single type of razor out there from disposable to the battery operated vibrating type and from the one blade to the 5+1 blade. I have tried all the brands and ended up feeling the Gillette brand is the best type of razor, but now I find it's not the best shave. I used an electric shaver several years back, it was one of the top of the line Norelco with the incorporated gel. It gave me a pretty bad razor burn and did not get all the hairs; I ended up having to shave as normal. --TRUE STORY-- I am a Manager at my job and on my last annual review the only item I was marked bad was my personal appearance. Not that I dress bad or not wear deodorant, but that they felt I didn't shave often. (I shave at the very least every other day, usually every day). So I felt I had to so something about it. I researched electric shavers thinking I could get a quick shave during my lunch hour in my car or at least on my way to work so it would last longer. I found that Panasonic seems to be leading the pack and was moderately priced and had all the features the expensive models had. The instruction manual is explicit in saying it will take about 30 days to get used to any new shaving method and they assure you will love the Panasonic shaver once your facial hairs get used to the way it is cut. I have been using it for almost 30 days now, and I will not live without it. I have NEVER had this close of a shave before. I can actually go 2 days without getting a shadow. My fiancé has found a new love for touching my face, and I seem to be getting more kisses too! During the first 2 weeks I had to get a couple of the missed hairs with my old Gillette, but today officially I was able to through my Gillette away for good. (My boss has even asked what I am doing different and when I told him, he went out and bought one too, he also loves it now. My fiancé said she would leave me if I stopped using the Panasonic, it's a good thing Panasonic has been around for decades) So, I am raving about his product, but every good has its bad... what the bad? Well, it gets a couple of weeks to get used to the shave, but for the amount of time I am planning to use it and the money I am saving from buying razors every month, I can handle that. The cleaning system is very good, but it takes very long to clean (2-3 hrs) and it is noisy since the base turns the shaver on and off during the cleaning cycles. The cleaning cartage is said to last 3 months whether you use it once a day or one a week. I have not gotten to that point yet, but it is very very easy to clean in the shower with some body wash. I just end up using the base for the drying cycle, which is an option. The batter is very good. In the month I have used it, I have charged it twice but it really didn't need it as it said the charge was good. Overall... excellent product. Could there be a better shaver out there, maybe, will I ever know... at this time, I am not worried about it, I am very satisfied with this Panasonic, and don't think it can get any better. This product does not include the cleaning base. I do recommend it as even if you don't use it to clean the razor, you can use it to dry it, it will help keep your blades in the newest condition and prevent them from rusting when air drying. But, if you are looking to save money and get an excellent razor, this is it!
