This is a good software for casual use (hiking, biking, geocaching), but not without issues. On the positive side, it definitely beats all non-digital (scanned USGS maps) alternatives. The level of details is good enough(how many of us need to know topography down to 5 feet?). The fact that maps are digitally generated (with vectors I believe) makes all the labels clear at any scale. It has two advantages over its main "digital" competitor, NG Topo. First, all of the US is on one DVD for the price of separate state/region CDs from NG. And second, it is available. I could not even find NG's Northeast edition anywhere on the web! One might think NH and ME are some obscure corners of the globe and not big tourist destinations.

Now the few negatives. The Exchange feature with GPS is flaky. Sometimes it takes several tries of unplugging and replugging the cable and restarting the program before it recognizes my Garmin. Part of it could be that low and mid range GPS still have serial connection and are not truly plug-and-play even with COM-to-USB adapter (beats me why Garmin can't make all their GPS with USB in this day and age). In any case, regardless of whose  fault it is, it is annoying at times not to be able to connect the two smoothly.

The second problem I noticed was with the 3-D window. It clearly consumes a lot of memory and crashes my laptop if I do a lot of rapid rescaling. I ended up just closing that window, since it is pretty much for "coolness" and does not add any real topographical value.

Finally, I had a problem with Delorme's service. I purchased it from Amazon with a rebate offer. However, a month after submitting the necessary info I received a card from Delorme stating that the bar code I sent was not a UPC code. The box only had one bar code on it so I am not sure how I could have made a mistake. They requested that I send a correct one, but with the code cut out and gone, how do they expect me to come up with one?! I feel a little bit like that was a cheap way out of paying the rebate but $20 is not worth the time arguing with them over it. I would be interested to hear if anyone else experienced the same problem.
