If you decide to buy a current greeting card program, there are really only two front-line choices: Art Explosion Greeting Card Factory (currently version 5) or Hallmark Card Studio (currently 2006). There are other programs available specifically for creating cards, but most of them are low quality and outdated, and aren't really worth considering. (A competitive third product featuring American Greetings designs is sadly now long outdated; the designs in the American Greetings program were of similar quality to those in the Hallmark package).

So how do these two products match up? Without a question, if you are looking for quality "canned" cards, the Hallmark program wins. The Hallmark designs are professional, and are equal in quality to cards you would purchase in a store. In contrast, the designs in Art Explosion are adequate but surely NOT up to the quality of a store-bought card. The Hallmark program is also able to simply and correctly print to several different types of card store (although you are stuck with the choices pre-programmed into the software unless you want much frustration). The Art Explosion does a poorer job of correctly and simply printing to a variety of card stock and configurations.

Art Explosion beats the Hallmark program in editing options (more extensive), and in the amount of additional art (clipart, etc.) included with the package.

If you do not plan to use the "canned" cards, then I would recommend Art Explosion. But the average user will likely appreciate the professional, high quality cards in the Hallmark package. Personally, I consider the choice of the Hallmark package over Art Explosion a no brainer. 

A note on versions: The publisher comes out with a new version of the Hallmark program every year (2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, etc.) and the same is true for Art Explosion Greeting Card Factory. Having used many of these versions, I find very little reason to recommend upgrading year by year. Disappointingly, the stock cards in the Hallmark program do not seem to have changed appreciably in many years, and the same is true for Art Explosion.
