I concur with the review that points up the problems with Adobe's new "license manager" method of activation. When you pay as much as you do for this app, or the entire suite, you should not be faced with complete lockup should you have hardware problems, or can't connect to the Internet from "location shooting." I took one star off for this egregious marketing tactic.

That said, this version of Photoshop is superb, an otherwise 5-star app. If you take the time to use the tutorials included in the help (used to be separate folders, with chapters 1 - 4 of the Classroom In A Book, but no more alas), or get one of Deke McClelland's fine tomes and do all the lessons, there is nothing in this app that the novice can't start to use from Day One. With today's point & shoot cameras packing more resolution, and more manual control, into their functions, use of Photoshop becomes more than just a hobby. You can really "rescue" photos that are too dark, too bright, exceedingly color-shifted, from the "cut" folder and still make prints. Further, the Camera RAW functionality allows anyone with a sufficiently functional digicam to touch up snapshots into fine photography.

A warning: you need the fastest processor you can afford (a Core Duo or Quatro will be superb), and as much RAM as your system can take. There is an optional performance plug-in which maximizes performance on systems with more than 1 Gigabyte of RAM. You need AT LEAST that much under Windows XP to get good performance out of PS CS2. If you can use 2GB or more dual-channel memory, that's even better (the dual-channel RAM adds a small boost when handling large file sizes, e.g. Camera RAW image sources). If you don't have these, don't expect Photoshop to act fast. 

Adobe Bridge is a major improvement for this version. It offers superior file and image management functions, and can even do batch editing on images. You can even perform Camera RAW adjustments right from Bridge. Bridge can perform batch processes WHILE YOU EDIT IN PHOTOSHOP. If that isn't cool, I don't know what is. If you doubt me, check out Deke McClelland's PHOTOSHOP CS2 ONE-ON-ONE tutorial for his chapter on using Adobe Bridge. His video introduction (included on a DVD in the book), and chapter on using and customizing Bridge, are terrific introductions.

If you're a user of versions 5.x (as I was), 6, or 7, upgrading to CS2 is a no-brainer. Don't wait. Get it now before the Adobe License Manager gets worse in 2007
