This is absolutely tremendous!  If you ever owned the original Kirby-Lee Fantastic Four comics, and let them go for whatever reasons, or if you never had them, and want to see the World's Greatest Comic Magazine in the days when it truly lived up to that title, this is the way to go!  No one who's gotten this far should pass it up... it's an unbelievable bargain and a wonderful item in these days of madness like comics slabbed in plastic, like Han Solo trapped in carbonite...

Forget the Marvel Masterworks volumes... the reproduction ranges from shoddy to terrible, and the color is garish.  Those reprints do a great disservice to these classic comics... the originals looked much better than they do in the Masterworks volumes!  An example... Fantastic Four #5... in the Masterworks volume, on the very first page of the very first appearance of Doctor Doom, black splotches inexplicably obliterate most of Doom's mask...there's no excuse for that! That wasn't there in the original, and it's not here in the scan!  

If you don't own the original comics, and aren't wealthy enough to buy the originals, this is the way to go.  The scans are very good, high resolution.  Here, you see all the linework that gets clotted in the Masterworks volumes, and you can zoom in and really study all the details of that great Kirby machinery, otherworldly architecture, and cosmic panoramas!  I've had a big grin on my face from the moment I looked at the first page... this is what comics are all about... pure, unadulterated, cosmic fun!

The original letter pages and ads are a real treat, too... the whole experience is time travel!

Oh, yeah... you also get 34 years of non-Kirby Fantastic Four issues... ;-)

Please note!  If you have a Mac, and are having difficulties with this dvd, here are some tips.

Are you opening it with Preview?  If you just click on the icon on the disk, it will open in Preview... but this will not work properly.  You must use Adobe Reader to see the pages without the watermark.

Install Adobe Reader from the dvd.
Make an alias of Adobe Reader and put it in the Dock.
Click and open the dvd icon.
Click and open the decade folder.
Don't open the year folder... click and drag the pdf icon, (such as FF_1960.pdf), onto the Reader alias in the dock to open.
Click on year.
Click on month.
Click on the magnifing glass icon to zoom to any size.
Enjoy all that cool Kirby machinery bigger than you've ever seen it!

I hope this is helpful
