Snapfire and Snapfire Plus are new photo software from Corel. Snapfire was recently released as a free download and Snapfire Plus is a budget priced upgrade which adds more advanced features.

The one thing consumers ask for the most is a photo software that is easy to learn and use. Corel's answer is Snapfire's Message Center. From this one window, you can keep up with the latest news, updates and specials. More importantly, you have easy access to many tips and tutorials.

Snapfire has automated photo downloading from your camera, memory card or CD. Just plug in one of these and the Photo Downloader automatically starts. You can set download options for how it works. Snapfire will automatically rotate your photos when needed, check for and download only the photos added since the last download and automatically delete the photos from your camera after downloading them to the folder of your choice on your hard drive.

Once your photos are downloaded, you can use Quick Review to view photos in full screen mode and use the floating toolbar for tasks such as adding photo information, ratings and captions or starting Photo Fix. Snapfire's Photo Doctor analyzes your photos and makes suggestions for Quick Fix. With Photo Fix, you can pan, zoom and make corrections such as brightness, contrast and focus. Other photo adjustment features, which are similar to those included in Corel's popular Paint Shop Pro, include Fix Red Eye, Rotate and Crop (with a floating toolbar). Other features borrowed from Paint Shop Pro include easy-to-use organizing with Sort by, Search and Calendar Search. Snapfire also has ways to enhance your photos including Black & White and Sepia color effects.

The Photo Tray is a really nice feature which you can use to drag and drop your photos into a common location, grouping them together for a project, emailing to family and friends or printing. Snapfire has a really cool and special way to email photos. Its called Snapfire Show. After you select the photos you wish to send, Snapfire will automatically create a slide-show with built-in transitions, music and motion effects. Your photos are resized and embedded into the body of the email or added as an attachment.

Printing your photos is easy and fool-proof with the built-in layouts including standard 4 x 6, 5 x 7, 8 x 10, 3.5 x 5, wallet size and contact sheets. Snapfire will automatically use your default printer settings or you can change the settings or printer as needed. If you choose to order prints online instead, you can do so with one click of your mouse and the Photo Upload dialog box.

You can also use Snapfire to work with your videos. Just click on a video's thumbnail to view and edit the video in full screen mode. You can even grab a frame from your video and convert it into a photo. For crafters, Snapfire has several built-in project templates for album pages, greeting cards, calendars and collages. Creating a project is as easy as dragging your photos onto the template and using the basic tools to make adjustments, add text captions and position photos.

A trial version of Snapfire Plus (SE) comes packaged with the newest upgrade of Paint Shop Pro Photo XI or can be downloaded from the Corel website
