Our photo and video editing softwares were both very basic and "old", so we decided to upgrade a couple of months ago.  After reading many reviews on different bundles, we decided to get the Adobe Photoshop Elements 5.0 Premiere Elements 3.0 bundle.  We've played around with the Premiere Elements a bit, and it's really awesome.  Much better than the Pinnacle Studio 8 we had before.  All the basic functions are easy to use and very intuitive, though we haven't gone and figured out the more advanced features yet.  The Photoshop Elements is a wonderful tool, as well.  We recently had to scan in a lot of old pictures (as in 20+ year old b/w photographs).  They needed a lot of touching up, and Elements 5.0 worked wonderfully for that.  I could adjust the lighting and sharpening, fix the colors and scratches, and the pictures turned out amazing.  You'd never be able to tell they were scanned images from such old photographs.  The program is also very intuitive.  I could do all the things I wanted to do without having to read the manual.  Of course, I'm still just touching on the surface of what all is possible, and I plan on reading the manual and studying the program in more detail once I have the time to do so, but for what I need right now, it's easy to use and does a good job.  There are only two things I have to comment on that I don't like about the Adobe bundle, and they are the reason why I'm giving 4 stars instead of 5.
1. The stated minimum requirements for this bundle are 512MB RAM.  That's what we had on our computer, and while the program worked, it was so painfully slow that it wasn't feasible to really use it.  We ended up upgrading to 1GB, and it's been working great since.  So if you have less than 1GB RAM, make sure you upgrade before getting this software!
2. The red-eye fix in Photoshop Elements, or lack thereof.  There is an auto red-eye fix, but it doesn't work very well.  It finds red eyes in all kinds of places, just not where they actually are.  Sometimes it covers half the face, sometimes only half of the eye, etc. etc. etc.  There is an option to manually show the program where the red eye is, but it still doesn't work right.  Maybe there's another trick I haven't found out about yet, but as of right now, I usually give the fix tool a shot, and if it doesn't work I take the picture back into my old editing software and fix the red eye there.  I'm really very disappointed with this, as fixing red eyes is something you have to do quite frequently when editing pictures.  
Overall, the software has been very easy and fun to work with, even for an amateur like me.  :o)  If Adobe can adjust the minimum requirements recommendation and fix the red-eye fix tool, it's going to definitely deserve 5 points
