This is a great PDA Bible for many reasons, several of which are already mentioned in other reviews.  It is easy to use, has most of the NIV Study Bible notes and crossreferences, comes with a multi color highlighter (great for using different colors for different purposes...red for commands, blue for promises, etc.), you can change the font for easier reading, and it has a great search engine in case you want all of the references to, say "peace" that occured in the New Testament.  The programs that come with it are nice as well, including one that tells you what to read if you want to read the Bible in one year, the OT in one year, the NT in one year, and many more options.

I was somewhat disappointed by a few features that would have made it a hands-down 5 star program, though.  The original NIV Study Bible has elaborate introductions for each book, including author, purpose, structure, and much more.  The Palm version is lacking all of this, and has no introduction at all.  

The original also has many cultural information boxes all throughout the Bible, like a description of the differences between Pharasees and Sauducees; the palm version does not.  

The cross references are wonderful - click on a small circle after a verse, and all of the cross references pop up.  Simply click on a cross reference, and the program takes you right there.  Unfortunately, however, the Palm program has no feature like a "back" button that gets you back to the original text.  Finding your original spot is not difficult - it only takes 5 seconds and a little concentration - but would have been much nicer to go instantly back the same way you can instantly get to a cross refernce by clicking on it.  

Finally, I would be actively marketing this product and the Palm platform to all of my friends if it included all of the wonderful maps that the original has - maps of the Holyland, Jerusalem, the Middle East, the Temple, and others that are in my paper NIV Study Bible.  

Despite these flaws, however, the program is a joy to use and I highly recommend it to all.  I am using a Tungsten T3 - the larger screen size make reading easier
