Tiger is simply the most advanced personal Operational System on Earth!

I am an advanced used. I have used all sorts of operational systems in the last decades: IRIX (unix from Silicon Graphics), SUNos (unix from Sun), Linux, and also the bad written Windows. Everytime I used Windoze in the last 20 years, I had to deal with crashes, hanging, lost of data and hours of configurations, tuning, adjusts, cleaning, etc. Even today, everytime I shutdown Windoze, it hangs, due to some program crashing. It's a true joke!!!

On February 2005 I decided to buy a Mac and give it a try. I bought a Mac Mini and started using it.

What I have to say is that I am using it for more than an year without an issue, without a crash. System is solid as rock. Some bad written programs eventually crash, but never the system. And I am the kind of guy who works with several heavy programs with heavy documents opened at the same time. Mac never crashed. I am about to suggest Apple a way to make it crash, so we can rest a little bit, instead of working all the time.

So much trouble I had in the past with Windoze that even today, while I am using the Mac, I feel like it will crash at any time. Fortunately it never crashed.

Beyond those functions advertised by Apple, you will see that MacOS is a superb gold mine for those who want to explore under the hood. Filled with thousands of powerfull unix commands and programs, you will be able to perform miracles.

Microsoft is copying everything it can from Tiger and advertising it as revolutionary features of up comming Windows (hasta la) Vista. I cannot see a single revolutionary function on Vista, as everything already exists on Tiger. The most amazing is some sites on the web comparing Vista (a vaporware not yet launched) with Tiger (an actual product).

The only thing Gates forgot is that one month after Vista is released, Apple will launch Leopard that will take the crown from Tiger.

What I can say you is that for the first time on years I have joy of using a personal computer.
 
