I understand that software companies strive to give new versions of their products "new" or "better" appearances but in my opinion toos and defaults should be recognizable from version to version as much as possible.  I have used versions of Corel since CorelDraw!3 I just moved to X3 from 10 and find that the trace tool works better but the mechanism is somewhat cryptic.  I would have great sympathy for a buyer that is using it for the first time if they had never used an older version simply because I could only figure it out through past knowledge and trial and error.  The results were great but the methodology lacks some of the intuitiveness of the past versions.  The pallettes are far less comprehensive thn version 10's pallettes.  I truly wish I had version 8's pantone pallette back even though it is incomplete it was so much better layed out.  i will never understand why black has to be at one end of the pallette and white at the other, waste of time...   The tools are all there but they appear different.  I went to work in X3 fright away and found I could work effectively on day one but I did resort to version 10 (which I have kept on my system) a few times in the first week to perform operations that I coupdn't figure out in X3 which were simple in 10.  The Help files are circuitous, apparently never actually getting to the point.  The on line tutorials are great for the absolute novice but useless to anyone who actually has worked with vector art before.  The Export to AI is still a little inaccurate even after all these years.  (You cannot select a line terminus and expect it to be there in AI) The EPS export filter doesn't always want to be readable in Adobe either.  The price is excellent, the product spectacular in its own right and I am happy with my purchase. I expected a little more in this version than I got but no less than I had with additional compatibility.  I still need to have a copy of Illustrator on my machine to deal with people who have only that program
