I ordered the box version from Amazon, instead of the download from the manufacturer not only because it was less expensive, but the main reason was so that I would have a paper manual. So many programs don't come with hard copy manuals and I prefer them over on-line help. 

As for the program itself, I trialed a download first. For me, the thing I fell in love with was the ability to call up multiple images, side by side, and compare them! It makes selecting the best image a breeze - a HUGE timesaver. You also have the ability to swiftly zoom in to check focus at full rez. Another wonderful thing is that putting the curser over one of the preview images, and sliding it, will slide all the open previews simultaneously, so you don't have to individually zoom and move each image. You can do this with up to 6 images at a time! You can also do a quick histogram check by hitting the "h" key, which makes it easy to toss off bad exposures at the same time as the review. While you've got the previews open you can hover the mouse over them and hit any # key to color-code the image. The colors can be keyed to whatever description you want. I do "1=green" for yes, "2=yellow" for maybe, and "3=red" for no. There's room for quite a few more colors after that. I then hit the sort key back in the main screen and quickly select all the red "no" images and delete them. After I have all my green "yes" images, I then review them 6 at a time to give them star ratings. I resort by rating and now all the best images are at the top of the page and I can start processing them. 

You can batch process file name, and some other things that I don't bother with, as well. It's got some nice keywording ability and you can easily sync the keywords with your Photoshop files. What's incredibly nice is that you can click on any word in the keyword list and all the images you own, with those keywords, are immediately shown in thumbnails! Finding an image is actually fun! It will even give you thumbnails of images you don't even store on your hard drive anymore! 

Fantastic program - I highly recommend it! The only reason I didn't 5 star it is b/c it's not all that intuitive. This is a read-the-manual kind of program, but you can do an awful lot with it without having to get too far in the book. ;)
