Love the program.... Hate the company!

I've been using QuickBooks for more than 10 years.  I started with the basic edition since I am a very small business and use only a portion of the program, specifically Customer and Vendor Lists, Invoicing, A/R and Purchase Orders.

OVERKILL is an understatement... QuickBooks Pro is much more powerful than I need.  I don't use Payroll, Check Printing, Year End Accounting and many of its other functions.  SO WHY DID I PURCHASE SUCH A POWERFUL PROGRAM?

That's the "rub".  Intuit is not satisfied with its QuickBooks users being content with the edition that they are using; Intuit sales people call all too frequently trying to get you to upgrade to the next higher version (edition) of their program.  They hounded me for years to upgrade from the early basic edition to the then current basic edition; finally, they dropped support of the product and I had no choice.  

I purchased QuickBooks 2005 Basic Edition in 2005.  Shortly after purchasing it, they informed me that they were no longer going to support the 2005 Basic Edition and if I wanted continued support I would have to upgrade again, this time to the Pro Edition.  

This January (2007) I received an email from Intuit informing me that my 2005 Basic Edition wouldn't run on the new Windows XP Vista platform and if I switched to Vista I would need to upgrade to QuickBooks Pro.  I upgraded to a new PC in February as the result of a major crash on my former system and opted to go with Vista, thinking that I could install Windows 98 as a second operating system to run QuickBooks 2005 Basic.  The second operating system didn't work out and, after seriously considering switching to Microsoft Accounting 2007, I purchased QuickBooks Pro.

I was very disappointed that Intuit didn't offer a significant purchase incentive to existing users; but they never have in all the years that I've been using their product.  Even Microsoft, the shark of sharks, offers incentives.  DON'T BE MISHEARTENED.

I purchased the program from Amazon and, with rebates and other purchase incentives, saved $60 over Intuit's price; I could have saved an additional $25 if I had bought on eBay (had I known it at the time). 

