Over all I am very happy with the product. It has paid for itself in this short time by just making Happy Birthday cards. I am not totally happy with the product and I am not sure if I would buy it again. The product is well worth the money you are paying but their is a few things which I am not happy about: 
1. Even though the product gives you CD's which contain Art and Project Models their is more art and projects on the Internet. To access these art and projects you need to go on the Internet which is not a problem. What is a problem is that if you want to get on this site and a lot of other people are on the site already you may not be able to get on the site. If you cannot get on the site you cannot finish your project. You will have to put it away until some other time when you can get on the site. This is frustrating and annoying. It makes you want to take the entire program and through it out the window and buy another brand.
2. The other thing I was not happy about was, I was given a coupon, in the box, for a 1 year membership to the "Million Image Club" To get into this club you have to fill out some paperwork and submit it on the Internet. After it is reviewed you are then sent a pass word, over the Internet, that allows you to go on the site. Well, I filled out all the paperwork, sent it in over the Internet, as required, but was not sent a password. Well, I tried to find some one to talk to about this but ran into a brick wall after spending a lot of time being directed from one site to another only to end up with no answer to the problem. It seems that Broderbund does not control the product but "Encore" does. You will receive almost no help at all from "Encore". The only place to get help is from a Forum which couldn't give a reasonable answer on what I should do. So, I am now not getting access to the "Million Image Club", to tell you the truth, I don't really care. When you finally can get on the site you have hundreds of images and models to choose from. You really don't need a million more.
	
