This software is wonderful! I have been trying to find a good program to scrapbook digitally for many years. I've tried Broderbund (sp?) whose interface was too clumsy, Nova which was rather difficult at times (many things you can't do) and now this. When I first took this out of the package and installed it I thought I had made the wrong decision with this software since there were very, very few backgrounds, templates or embellishements even when I opened the Xtras CDs that came with this. I truly did not feel the Xtras CDs were worth purchasing since there are very few things on them. But then I found the tutorials that are included on the CD and watched the one about making collages. I didn't get halfway through the video - I had figured out how to do it. I have now created some of the best scrapbook pages I've ever made. Within hours I had a beautiful collage/letter to send with my holiday cards. My husband's first impression was a heartfelt "It's lovely". What has so throughly convinced me of the abilities of this software is that I can take ANY image and make it a background, I can create and manipulate text almost any way I want, I've been able to create my own embellishments as well as using downloaded embellishments from websites that sell it (.png format). I feel like I have no limitations on what I can do now. I imagine this software is not as sophistacated as Adobe Illustrator, but then it probably isn't as complicated to use (from what I remember that program has a rather steep learning curve).

You can also use the eyedropper tool to "pick up" any color from any picture, background, or element (read "anything") in the program. I was able to take the background colors and make embellishments that matched! I can take a color from one of my pictues and make a background that matches. You can also remove backgrounds from photos - it takes a bit of time to do, but the area around the image will be transparent - this functionality has many uses.  You can also save your files in many different formats including .jpg for file sharing, etc. There are so many more features I couldn't possibly list them here, nor would you want me too (too much time). 

If you only use premade templates and don't feel ready to venture out on your own yet this software may not be for you unless you find a website that sells templates for this software. You could start with something like Nova Scrapbook Factory Deluxe 3.0, which I liked, and when you start becoming really frustrated by its limiations it may be time to move up to this program. You may also want to read a book about digital scrapbooking to give you ideas and alert you to possibilities. 

The great thing about this program is that it isn't just for scrapbooking. You can do all your photo manipulation in it . I have always liked Paint Shop Pro so much that I haven't been able to afford to upgrade my copy since version 6, but I kept using that version. I'm so glad I got version 10 as it is very user friendly too. But please know that version 10 (which comes with this package) is not the most recent version. Version 11 is out now. If you don't want/need the Xtras CDs that come with this package you may want to just buy the most recent version and buy some embellishements from a website that makes .png files (portable network graphics format) or make your own. 

I hope you have as much fun with this software as I am having. I highly recommend the training videos on the CD - they really help
