I bought BHG Deluxe 7.0 software to plan an addition. I talked to the companies and shopped around before purchasing. I did not talk to IMSI about floor plan 3D, I gave up after trying to get through to a human. I would bet a guess the software is as good as IMSI's telephone skills. I talked to Punch Software and was warned away from their product by their own tech as I have integrated video on my computer. Apparently you need a video card with a minimum of video memory to render drawings with any usable speed using punch software. Punch Software's loss, not mine as that's a ridiculous issue for a consumer software product. Chief Architect offered a money back guarantee for their Better Homes and Gardens products, even if purchased via vendors like amazon. I'll keep this better homes and gardens home designer deluxe software, even though it does have it's annoying quirks. Even for a lesser package from the pro version, the library of items it very limited. I would guess there are quite a few more in the pro version, but it is odd to not include more of the most standard items that many home owners would need when laying out a home. You learn to just use a nearly matched symbol to fill the space, even though it is not the correct symbol or size of item. Since I am not interested in the 3D view, this is not a big issue for me. The item I needed most was floorplanning. 3D modeling is an extra item that I may play with, but is not essential for me personally. If you are truly interested in the 3D aspect, this is an issue. I would recommend visiting the product forum to see what is the best choice. [...]  For quick and easy floor plan software with a few extras, this software does better than OK. No experience necessary, and the short tutorial videos will get you started quickly. I have issues with not being able to have more control of wall types, and there are some odd roof design limitations even for a mid to low priced consumer package. These are annoying enough to urge an upgrade to pro if you want more  control of all aspects. Since I will be laying out the floor plan, then turning it over to an architect with real softare, it's not a problem for me. I have had a few restarts due to drawings getting all wild and messed up, but by ignoring the autosaved drawings, I was able to go back to my last manually saved drawing and start from a known good point. This software does have upgrade options to download from the company site. Just like any good software company, they do provide spftware patches to download. I would definately recommend this software as a quick way to do floor plans. Adding walls, doors, windows, and other items is very simple. Just don't plan on perfection, as it's based on prefabbed walls and is limited to whole inches, not fractions. Angles are an issue as well. If you need specific angles, this is not the package, it does preset increments only. I wish it had default preferences a user could select as well. Being able to preset your roofing style preferences or other items would eliminate quite a bit of redo's. I hope the software companies read these reviews. There is alot of good information on how to improve the products.    
