I bought this to use with family photos and threw together my first 5 page comic last night.  It was fairly easy to use, but not perfect.  Instructions are thin (read 'mostly nonexistant'); so it is best that you either have time on your hand OR a lot of experience using complex photo software.

GOOD:  Simple once you get the hang of it.  Plenty of fixed comic book panel formats to chose from and the drag-and-drop photo application makes life very easy.  As long as you are OK with the formats provided, then putting family photos into a fun comic book format is incredibly easy.  I received rave reviews from my first 'comic' and the finished product was of exceptional quality.  The sofware has a nice assortment of boxes, call-outs and even some fun clip art.  This was a great buy for the price.

NOT AS GOOD: The learning curve can be steep due to the quirky layout of controls.  I guess this is not too bad of an issue since there are few controls provided with the software.  The "dude" who wrote instructions was flippant at best (really annoying if you want to find a basic answer) and definitely not paid to produce a quality product.  Downloading photos was tough until I found out the trick - after that, it is quite easy.  

BAD: No photo editing software included.  Simple things like rotating photos 90 degrees had to be done prior to loading into Comic Book Creator.  The instructions and "Comic Book Wizard" are close to useless.  Did I mention the controls?  They are basic (good and bad) and poorly laid out (bad).  There is no ability to truly customize panel layouts; so this software will not help out if you want something really creative.  (Diagonals, overlays and more.)

All-in-all, this was an excellent buy for a software package under $20.  I created a great storyboard format of some fun memories - bringing a great laugh (and a few "wows") to my family, grandparents and friends.  Just be aware that there is a learning curve to get over before you hit the fun stuff.  If the software was more expensive, then I would have given it 3 stars
