This set has got everything.  Almost every major Spider-man moment is in this collection.  From Spider-man's first appearance in Amazing Fantasy #15, his wedding, and not to forget those great super-villain battles with the Green Goblin and Venom.

Each issue is scanned in .pdf format.  It has all the original colors, ads, and fan mail printed.  They are all organized by year and it says they are all printable.  If you are looking for the entire Stan Lee and John Romita Sr.'s run, here it is.  It is great to see where Todd Mcfarlane, the creator of Spawn got his start on old webhead.   J. Michael Strackzynski, the writer of Babylon 5 also takes a crack at Spider-man's life.  

The collection covers the beginning from Amazing Fantasy #15 to Amazing Spiderman #531, which is around the start of Marvel's Civil War.

Instead of spending thousands of dollars on purchasing back issues, you can own this entire collection for around $40-$45.  If you have the ink, you can print out any issue to your heart's desire.

The only drawbacks are around the 80s when several spider-man books begin to crossover.  You only get a part of the story in Kraven's Last Hunt or Maximum Carnage.  One major moment of Spider-man's life is left out, where he fights Harry Osborn as Green Goblin. The conclusion of that story took place in The Spectacular Spider-man title.  That problem is going to fixed in the future as GIT Corp. has plans to release a complementary collection  dvd that includes The Spectacular Spider-man, Web of Spiderman, and Peter Parker:  Spider-man.  They say on the boards that it will be out by fall of next year, but you never know with this company.  I waited about six months for this dvd after it was delayed from its original release date from march.

Now that I have it, I cannot wait to dig into the mythos of the old webhead.  I recommend this to anyone who loves comics and loves Spider-man.

Be sure to look out for the Ultimate Spider-man collection and there are a few others like the Hulk, Daredevil, Iron Man, and Captain America collections that are due out next year
