I bought this package because I wanted good, high-compression universally accessible documents and images for my personal web page. (Google Werbos).
Finally, after zillions of googles on compression technology and trying many other things (see my other reviews), I found something that really, really works well, in a highly flexible and controllable way! What a relief! Much better than Acrobat 6.0, and other packages I have tried and reviewed. 
    The key capability lies in the "save as" command, which includes "optimized pdf" as one of the file types. The "settings" there gives you the power to choose JBIG2 and JPEG2000 compression, the very best formats for black and white or color scanned images or papers. And of course, as pdf, they are easy for anyone to read. 
   An example: two weeks ago, the world's top empirical nuclear physicist, in Japan, sent me a set of 24 1-meg JPEGs for a 24-page paper. Nothing I had would read it, except Microsoft Digital Image, which let me fix the pages and crop them; in Adobe 6.0, they ended up being a readable 14 meg document. No better. I printed it out at work, and scanned in the result at 400 dpi to a good modern copier/scanner. It ended up 5 megabytes. (The copier was modern and "intelligent".) Then, at home, in Adobe 6, it would
optimize it to pdf version 6, a nice 2.6 megabyte file. Today, I got it
to 940 K (and better quality, to the eye)in Acrobat 8.0, in a controllable
predictable way. I had previously tried many, many other options (including lots of Microsoft programs, all options).
    If I understand what I have seen... I could have used Acrobat 8.0 DIRECTLY, without all that printout and scan nonsense! The direct control in the "save as" command gets rid of the need to do all that. What's more,
I just reduced a 3.5 meg file (from the best previous material) to 1.02 megs. (As best I recall, I used CVISION before and only got that file to 1.5-2 megs. Acrobat 8.0 seems to be doing much better.)
    If you google a lot on compression and comparisons, you will see some small advantage of CVISION over older versions of Adobe Image Capture and Acrobat. But that's misleading. In Acrobat 6.0, I couldn't GET to that better compression. (Maybe if I had a PhD in Adobe, I could, but I tried hard..). With 8.0, it was easy. And the results are better than CVISION now, so far as I can tell. I certainly see no value at all in the new XPS formats Microsoft is touting, with Vista, now that something so much better is available.
    One caveat: published benchmarks say that the DjVu format may be better yet. I did not consider it, partly because of cost, but more because everyone knows how to get the latest pdf reader but DjVu might stop people going to my web page. But if Google Books popularizes it, I might reconsider DjVu. But then again... knowing what lies behind DjVu.. we might figure out something even better... eventually...  and maybe the future pdf standards will open to that!

