My four-year-old son loved the first Fritz and Chesster so much I just had to get the second.  I would have gotten the third installment as well, but it appears to require a DVD-Rom and more up-to-date software than he has on his computer (I suggest you always review those details before buying).  Like the first, this second installment has the same quirky and artistic sensibility and lots of amusing details that keep me as interested in it as he is.  

The first one seemed a lot more "British" than this one.  Just one example: in the first installment, the pawns are often depicted as English villagers with low-brow accents.  In this installment they are more often Texas ranchers... There were also numerous Britishisms in the first installment that were tough to understand for a child.  This one is thankfully free of them.  I suppose the American audience proved more lucrative than the original designers had expected.... 

I think the suggested age is more 6-or-above (they really should be able to read, I suppose), but with a little help even a younger child (such as my son) can get into most of the exercises and spend time with it.  There are several more advanced  features in this one than in the first installment.  Here the focus is on basic tactics, openings, and endgame situations.  So a child should really have made it through the first one before getting this.  He absolutely has to know all the rules, for instance -- the second installment is not going to teach them.  The first also has some wonderful exercises with just pawns or kings on the board, for instance, that have much to teach.  And some fun games like a maze with a monster chasing you (to teach the rook moves) or a cannon that fires diagonally (to teach the bishop).  Some of the games here (which resemble early video games, like space invaders) are a little too advanced for a four-year-old's manual dexterity....perhaps for a six-year-old's as well.  But there are many things he can get into nonetheless, especially if you take the time to explain things and get them started.

Overall, I'd say that if you want to give a child an introduction to the game, nothing beats the first Fritz and Chesster.  Other chess teaching video games are much darker and less helpful, really, for beginners.  And if he or she likes the first installment (which is also very girl-friendly), then by all means advance to the second -- especially for kids over 6
