I'm not going to cover the technical drawbacks of this software except to briefly mention that you should look over other reviews before you buy.  However, despite annoying design features, this is quite an amazing piece of software!  I would certainly rate it a 5+ if there weren't some design shortcomings and undocumented features ;)

For starters, the educational intent of this software was well thought out.  Young people will certainly learn a lot about chess through using this program and they will have tremendous fun doing it!  The game teaches fairly advanced concepts in very clever and engaging ways for children of all ages and even adults.

The graphics and characters are great.  The explanations of principles are sound and they are reinforced through fun chess exercises.  The program encourages young chess players and at the same time challenges them to improve.

The product description above covers the scope of the concepts covered in detail and I found this description to be accurate so I won't repeat it.  I spent about 2 hours with a 9 year old playing the game and I had a lot of fun!

I didn't find that this program was especially difficult to use and my young friend was able to figure it out intuitively.  He also found it difficult to pull himself away and so did I.  This definitely an activity you can enjoy along with your children.

The overall concept for this teaching tool is interesting because it involves three layers of play.  There is the overall game of rescuing the king who is trapped in the castle which is used as a tool to motivate the player to learn new chess skills that allow them to progress in this higher order game.  Embedded within this larger framework are a number of clever chess teaching games where you can record high scores and learn various skills.  These can be selected from within an animated room, which gives the player some freedom of choice.  Additionally, there are other fun games that are not necessarily related to chess, but that allow the player to relax their chess concentration and refresh themselves for tackling more difficult chess skills challenges.

I also think it's good that kids could join [...] for a year and play against others as part of the purchase price.  This gives them an arena to apply their chess knowledge and is a good community that is always available.  There are other online chess communities that are free, but I still think this is a nice added bonus.

I don't think any parent could go wrong purchasing this software for their child.  It's good for hundreds or even thousands of hours of entertainment and its powered by an excellent chess engine.  However, you can't play a game of chess against the computer with it.  It is ONLY a teaching tool.  However, you can buy Fritz Grandmaster Software for about [...] which does have this capability at a very low price point compared to other products of comparable playing ability.  I've heard criticisms of Fritz 9 and my understanding is the extra cost does not add a lot of value.  In fact, at this point there seems to be some bugs with Fritz 9.

If you purchase this product, you won't be disappointed.  I wish they had it when I was learning to play chess
