Rosetta Stone Spanish is the third major Spanish course that I am buying. 
I have comtpleted all of the Spanish lessons in the Pimsleur series, and have also completed Learning Spanish Like Crazy Level One and Two. 
I am one of those rare Latinas that did not learn Spanish from my parents. My Mexican parents felt that it would be easier to "assimilate" if I only spoke English. After going to my grandparents' home for holidays and being the only one there that did not speak Spanish, and after having Latino strangers speak to me in Spanish and then look at me in astonishment when I struggled just to say "no, hablo espanol," I felt that it was time for me to learn how to speak my language. 

The first course that I used was Pimsleur Spanish. Compared to Rosetta Stone I must say that I learned much more vocabulary with the Rosetta Stone software. But I recommend Pimsleur over Rosetta Stone, especially for the complete beginner. Because of its easy teaching method, in my opinion Pimsleur is even better than LSLC for someone that has no experience whatsoever speaking Spanish. Pimsluer goes at a very slow pace. But if you have already learned some Spanish on your own or in high school or college, then you can probably skip Pismleur and go straight to LSLC. Or if you are the type of person that believes learning a foreign language should be more like a hurdle than a marathon you'll probably want to go with Learning Spanish Like Crazy. LSLC covers a lot more Spanish words and grammar than Pimsleur and moves at a quicker pace. 

So where does Rosetta Stone fit in? 

I would say use Rosetta Stone after you have completed the above courses. It is difficult to really learn how to speak Spanish with this software alone because you are only looking at pictures and repeating the phrases that you hear. You never really learn how to think in Spanish and create your own sentences. So why am I still giving it 4 stars? 

Because if you already know how to speak some Spanish from another course and you are on an intermediate level then you can add plenty more Spanish words to your vocabulary by using the Rosetta Stone software. One negative about this course is that the method is tedious because the software's interface is "antiquated" with photos from the 1980s. And the sound quality is not as clear as Pimsleur or Learning Spanish Like Crazy. But if you stick it out through the drudgery, you will be surprised with how many Spanish words you learned with this software. 

But I think Pimsleur did a better job of teaching me concepts than this software is doing. And by teaching me concepts, I have really retained the material and by understanding concepts, I am able to take my own thoughts and form sentences. Something that I would not have been able to do if I had used this course alone. 

Another negative about this course, is that unlike the other two courses that I mentioned, you have to use Rosetta Stone while sitting in a computer. That is difficult for me because I am very busy with classes, work and my personal life. I can use Pimsleur or LSLC on my mp3 player and not have to worry about sitting at a computer. 

Besides the limited vocabulary and the slow teaching method, the only downside of Pimsleur is that it does not teach the same Spanish words that are most commonly used by Mexicans and other Latinos in regular conversation. Pimsleur Spanish is very formal Spanish. We say "mucho gusto" like LSLC teaches, Pimsleur teaches "encantado." And in our overly "macho" culture if a man responds with "encantado" many Latinos may get the wrong impression about him. It is not something that I am proud to say about my (Latino) culture, but it is true. And Pimsleur does not warn the male student that if you say "encantado" to some Latinos they may get the wrong impression about the speaker. 

Learning Spanish Like Crazy has taught me useful practical Spanish that I can use to communicate with my Spanish speaking friends and family. When I tell people that I learned to speak Spanish as an adult and not at home as a child, many of them do not believe me. I think they find it incredible for two reasons: 

One, my accent really sounds like a native Speaker from using LSLC. Two, I have learned real conversational Spanish from LSLC. I have learned words and phrases that Spanish speakers actually use when speaking to each other. PImsleur taught me Spanish that the author of the course thought that I should speak, not the Spanish that Latinos really speak. That is one of the positive things that separates LSLC course from the others. 

So in what order would I rate the three in terms of EASE of teaching method: 

1. Pimsleur Spanish 
2. Learning Spanish Like Crazy 
3. Rosetta Stone Spanish 

But in terms of teaching real conversational Spanish and teaching a real Latin American accent, I rate them as follows: 


1. Learning Spanish Like Crazy 
2. Pimsleur Spanish 
3. Rosetta Stone Spanish 
