If you've been living under a rock for the past year or so, perhaps you can be excused for not having heard about Microsoft's new edition to the 
Windows canon.  For all others, Vista has become a fact of life, whether or not you actually run the operating system yet.  Check out a tech website and you'll find a Vista screen shot somewhere, either depicting some impressive overclocking results via CPU-Z, or else simply for no other purpose than to show the world, "Yes, I can run Aero--aren't you jealous?"  In fact, it's hard to avoid Vista these days.  And, as always seems to be the case, most of what you hear is probably negative.

That's where I come in.  I've waited a while before writing this review, both to test the operating system and to wait for the horror stories to fade away.  They haven't.  And this can only mean one thing: the positive stories aren't getting through because most people who are satisfied with a product generally don't feel the need to comment on it.  Now of course you've probably seen quite a few anxious posts (most likely in all capital letters) either bashing Microsoft for everything under the sun, praising Vista indiscriminately, making it seem as though you need a $5000.00 enthusiast-class computer to run the thing, or boasting about Mac's venerable OS X and how Windows Vista is nothing more than a bad copy thereof.  Needless to say, none of these sorts of things helps, and all of them create a sense of confusion and negativity that reflects heavily on the product.  And, if you analyze them closely, you'll realize that *none of them actually says anything about Windows Vista.*  If you don't believe me, then just go visit Apple's discussion area and check out the iPod pages.  You'd get the impression that iPods were the worst products ever made and that every single one has problems.  Yet, if this were the case, then why have in excess of 100 million units been sold thus far?  The answer is obvious: people seem compelled to review products only if something went wrong with their experience.  In short, people confuse review sites with complaint forums.

Therefore, as the self-proclaimed Dr. Prog, I feel it my duty to step out of my usual mode of reviewing progressive rock albums and give an honest, no nonsense review of Microsoft Windows Vista Home Premium.

-THE INTERFACE-

Ah, yes.  You've heard all about the new Windows Vista Aero interface by now.  And virtually every screen shot you'll ever see will feature Aero.  But it's much more than just pretty, glass-like window frames.  Aero includes many new enhancements to the UI, such as the live thumbnails that appear when you mouse-over minimized windows.  As the name suggests, these actually update in real time, so if there is a video or an animation playing in the window, it will appear in the live thumbnail.  This is very useful.  Perhaps less useful but scoring about an 8 on the 1-10 "coolness factor" scale is the oft-mentioned 3D-Flip, which allows the user to view a three-dimensional representation of all open windows, along with offering the ability to virtually paw through these to bring the desired window to the forefront.  These are the things you'll hear the most about.

What you don't hear so much is all the general changes that have been made to the overall interface.  The new icons are photo-realistic and size-scalable.  They start out a little large, but you can set them to any size within a wide spectrum.  The explorer windows have been radically redressed, with a new breadcrumbs backward navigation tool that beats the old address bar hands down (you can retrace your steps in a logical, step-by-step manner, instead of using the cryptic addresses).  Also, they're spruced up with decorations that recall the visual aura style of some of the new wallpapers.  Speaking of which, these are for the first time actually usable, unlike in previous versions of Windows, where the wallpapers have been small and grainy.

More general changes include the absence of menu bars in most areas of Explorer, including IE.  These can be replaced momentarily with a tap of the Alt key, at least until you learn how to navigate without them.  Also, the animations are much better than in previous versions of Windows, particularly the one you see when copying a file.  In addition, the Start menu has been reworked drastically.  It doesn't even say "Start," anymore; instead, it's simply a blue orb with the Windows logo.  The first big change is the way programs are accessed: gone is the delicate and finicky ever-expanding hierarchy system, where a slightly overzealous hand could miss the mark and close the entire desired level.  Now, the All Programs button leads to an Explorer-like listing of folders, each clearly named, and each of which opens and closes with a single mouse click.  Each time the Start menu is opened, the folders reset themselves.  Also, they are automatically alphabetized.  The Start menu also contains most of the system links usually found on the Desktop (Computer, Documents, etc.), which is why the only thing on the Desktop the first time you boot up is the Recycle Bin.  And, in case you have seen screen shots or have tried out Vista already, the search bar at the bottom pulls double duty as a replacement for the Run command utility.

Speaking of search, though I seldom ever find myself wondering where my files are (I suppose I'm unique in this respect), many people have far more data to keep track of than me, and thus they will greatly appreciate the enhanced and pervasive searching facilities of Vista.  There are search boxes virtually everywhere in Explorer, including the Start menu.  There is even one in IE7, though it is not integrated with the system search.

But, as you've probably noticed, this is but a list of interface changes and additions.  I assure you the list could go on and on, and I know I'll receive more than one comment reminding me about some feature or other I've forgotten.  I'll read those when they come and add material as necessary.  But, aside from this, how does this new interface really impact the end user?  To be perfectly honest, though it's certainly pretty and a few parts of it required a little adjustment, it didn't feel much different from previous Windows versions to me.  But, to be honest, this is a good thing.  Perhaps you've heard that it's a nightmare to learn Vista.  That's a load of hogwash.  A few things are renamed, a few things have been moved around, and on the whole everything looks prettier.  But it's still Windows; it accomplishes the same tasks and it works virtually the same as it always did.

-INCLUDED SOFTWARE BUNDLE-

Taking a hint from Apple, Microsoft has included a compliment of digital media manipulation software.  While of course iLife is superior, there is one issue that must be cleared up: iLife is not an integral part of Mac OS X as you may have been led to believe.  Older Mac users must purchase it; it only comes with the newer Macs.  Therefore, Microsoft Windows Vista, to be purely technical, offers the most comprehensive digital media suite ever offered stock with an OS.  However, technicality is seldom practical, and Microsoft's inclusion is no iLife killer.  Still, the included calendar (new in Vista), photo viewing and editing application (new), Windows Media Player 11, Windows Movie Maker, and Windows DVD burning program (new) are nothing to scoff at.  No, they won't replace dedicated, professional stand-alone programs, but let's be honest: neither will iLife.

The new Internet Explorer 7 is a step forward from the piece of Swiss cheese IE6 was, insofar as security.  New features include a phishing filter, tabbed browsing, and improved security.  Additionally, IE7 runs in protected mode, also called a "sandbox."  The idea is that this one application is cordoned off from the rest of the system, thereby making it more difficult for malicious software to take control of your computer.  But that's more for the security section of the review.  The new IE7 is certainly more attractive than the older versions, and the version in Vista offers enhanced visual appeal that the XP port of the software lacks.  To be perfectly honest, I still use Mozilla Firefox (mostly because I can't stand those blinking ads on Web pages, and there is a Firefox extension that gets rid of that annoyance once and for all), but if I had to, I would have no qualms using IE7. 

The new incarnation of Window Media Player is really no different from the XP port.  It still doesn't support AAC, and it still doesn't handle gapless playback.  As an iPod user and a progressive rock fan, respectively, I can gather only one thing from these shortcomings: it's time to break out iTunes.  Don't get me wrong: WMP is not at all a bad tool.  It's still the default player on my system for most audio types.  However, once an iPod owner and prog rocker, always an iPod owner/progger.  I still say iTunes is king, if only because its interface is cleaner, it supports my audio device, and it offers gapless playback.

I haven't extensively tested the Windows Movie Maker application, but I have read that it is updated very slightly from the XP version.  The photo  editing tool is completely new for Vista, and after a little experimenting I was pleased that, though simple, the controls offer nice results.  This  application is on par with many of the basic image editing software packages you'll see offered with digital cameras, printers, and the like.  The other applications have yet to receive my testing, only because I don't often burn DVD movies, and I haven't entered an event in a calendar in about ten years.

As far as Windows Mail, I cannot be objective because I have never used Outlook or Outlook Express.  Reports seem to indicate that Windows Mail is simply a dressed-up Outlook Express, with many of the same features.  As I said, I have never used a mail program.  Call me old-fashioned, but I just check and write my mail from my Internet browser.  Either way, I don't honestly believe Microsoft would offer Outlook-level functionality in the stripped down version of Outlook 2007.

All in all, I was rather impressed at the steps Microsoft has taken to embrace the digital media age.  The effort falls short of iLife and proprietary solutions in this regard, but then, that is simply to be expected.  I haven't really benefited tremendously from the new additions, but there is certainly nothing wrong with them, and I know many people will be very happy with this digital media suite.

-SECURITY-

This is the big picking point many people (rightfully) have with Windows XP.  It seems as though there's at least two critical security updates every week.  The Mac commercials definitely have a point, but that's only because Macs make up so small a percentage of the market share (though it is indeed a growing share) that it is not advantageous for malware to be written for OS X users.  Even so, XP doesn't get a free pass here.  Something had to be done.  And that something was the security measures taken in Windows Vista.

The "sandbox" has already been mentioned above, but other features have been added.  One of these, Windows Defender (Microsoft's anti-spyware program), is one of those rare pieces of software that is just perfect: It may not be the best at what it does, but it's unobtrusive, it's simple to use, and it's totally and completely free.  Leave it on to supplement your already existing spyware solution, and you can only benefit.

Also featured in Vista is the now infamous User Account Control (UAC).  Basically, it prompts you every time your computer does basically anything, including installing programs, running some programs, updating settings, etc.  And, if you were wondering, the Mac commercials have it right: It really is that annoying.  To be fair, you will see far fewer of these alerts once the bulk of your software has been installed, but until then you will be very, very sick of UAC.  I don't advise this, but since I was able to get my anti-virus and anti-spyware software up and running on Vista, I finally turned off UAC.  Symantic seems to think this was unwise, but Norton Virus Scan doesn't bother me about it other than to recommend, on its information page, that I leave UAC activated.  Yeah.  Like that's going to happen.

Beyond these broad, tangible aspects of security, there is a lot of new stuff under the hood of Vista that makes it less susceptible to malicious attacks.  Mostly, unless you're very savvy, you don't need to understand it all and, to be frank, don't ask me because I haven't the foggiest how it all works.  I'm just glad it's there.

Overall, I think Microsoft has made a valiant effort with security.  I would still not advise running any Windows operating system without active virus and spyware protection, but at least Vista has taken a step in the right direction.  Plus, you likely have anti-virus and anti-spyware software from running Windows XP, which you can then install on Vista.

-THE HARDWARE-

Graphics:

This is the part I have been waiting for.  Everything I read up until I finally installed Vista told me I needed a dedicated graphics card with at least 256 MB of memory in order to run Aero.  I'll be honest: I fell for it.  I had a graphics card *in my hand*, but on the way to the checkout I realized I had left my gift certificate at home.  So I decided to wait and see how my hardware would react.  This is where I realized the utter bias among the tech community: I had absolutely no trouble running Aero on integrated graphics.  And that only makes sense because my setup is rather typical: a 17" flat panel monitor and a modern computer.  This will be what the majority of people have at the moment, and at this size, IG should have no trouble running Aero.  Now use logic: If you want to run dual 24" widescreen monitors, yeah, you'll need a graphics card.  Especially since I don't believe there even exists a dual monitor-capable IG motherboard (if there is such a thing, it's certainly not available on the OEM consumer market).  But if you have a fairly typical single monitor scenario on a computer that you bought within the past few years, you should have no trouble at all insofar as graphics.  Don't be fooled.  If you want to be absolutely sure, however, there is no harm--and plenty of good sense--in downloading Microsoft's free Upgrade Advisor utility to see if your setup is in any way deficient.  Plus, if you find you can't run Aero for any reason, you were going to upgrade to Vista anyway, so you  can still buy dedicated graphics at that point.  You don't need the top-of-the-line card unless you want to make this an excuse to foray into gaming; older technology that will get you up and running can be had for very reasonable prices.

RAM:

There is one area, however, where many computers will be deficient: RAM.  Oddly enough, while many sources are pushing the graphics card brigade, an almost equally strong force--the computer manufacturers themselves--seems to think that RAM is no big deal.  Trust me: If you've ever tried to run Windows XP on 256 MB of RAM, it's a painful experience.  That's what Vista is like on 512 MB--you don't even want to go there.  Dell is shockingly honest when they qualify the "minimum" Vista requirement of 512 MB of RAM (as per Microsoft) as "Great for booting the operating system, without running any applications or games."  This is where most people will have to upgrade their machines.  1 GB is perfectly acceptable; if you want true multitasking power (and you have the dual-core processor to support it), then go for 2 GB or more.  For most people, however, 1 GB will be fine.  My first of two Vista machines has 1 GB and it works perfectly.  I will warn you, though, that often times memory is installed in pairs, so your 512 MB is most likely two 256 MB modules.  The paired method offers better performance, but it will make upgrading a system with only two memory slots somewhat expensive (though not exorbitant by any means).  But this is not somewhere you want to skimp, so at least one pair of 512 MB memory modules should be on your list of extra hardware if you have only 512 MB of memory currently installed.

Processor:

This is perhaps the most accurate in terms of the hype.  You'll need at least a 1 GHz processor to run Aero.  Many computers with such processors don't even support 1 GB of RAM, so if you're in that situation, you will definitely be looking at a new computer with Vista pre-installed.  However, these are very old machines by this point, and most of us have something slightly newer.  One myth that needs to be dispelled is that dual-core processors will run Vista better than single-core CPUs: Vista is, for the most part, based on the Microsoft Server 2003 code, which is, in turn, based on the XP code, both of which came before the advent of multi-core processing.  Therefore, to the effect that the operating system is run, there will be only a marginal difference between a single-core or a dual-core CPU, provided both use identical core architectures.  Of course any applications that take advantage of multi-threading will benefit from multiple cores, but this was, is, and will always be the case, independent of the operating system.  The question is simply whether you see yourself multitasking more with Vista.  If that's the case, then a new computer with a dual-core processor installed is probably your best bet; if you're fine with your current setup, then it will most likely run Vista and Aero without any problems.  It is interesting to note, however, that some upgrade aptitude utilities have some small quirks and will give conflicting and non-real results.  For example, such a utility offered by Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) passed both my A64 X2-based machines without a hitch.  However, when on a whim I ran it on my old P4-based desktop, the utility seemed to think that a 2.40B GHz Pentium 4 Northwood (533 FSB) would be insufficient to run Vista.  I smell AMD bias, even though I happen to favor AMD over Intel.  Just take what such utilities tell you with a grain of salt, and remember that Microsoft's own utility is likely the most reliable.  Generally, your processor will not be an issue when upgrading to Vista.

Hard Drive:

Again, this one is pretty straightforward.  If you have a 40 GB hard drive or better, you're good to go.  And if you don't have that, hard drives are so cheap these days that you could easily at least triple your current capacity for about what it costs to take the family out to dinner one evening (Amazon does not allow price figures, hence my vagueness regarding pricing throughout this review).

Things get interesting when you consider a dual boot scenario.  This is when you have two operating systems running on the same system, either on the same or on different hard drives.  In my honest opinion, this is the best way to go because you get to keep your current operating system (just in case you run into problems with Vista), and you also get to have Vista.  Keep in mind that, in order to run Vista on the same hard drive as your current OS, you'll need to install each OS on a separate partition.  You can either purchase a third party partitioning tool, or do what I did, which was use the Ubuntu Linux live boot disc's built-in partitioning utility.  Of course there is risk involved with this last solution (but, in my experience, I've used it dozens of times with no problems), so do the latter only at your own risk.

-COMPATIBILITY-

This is where most of the horror stories have come from.  Both hardware and software compatibility nightmares are flitting around in denser clusters than fish flies in June.  Up until recently, anti-virus and anti-spyware programs have been unable to install on Vista.  In addition, many proprietary printer applications are incompatible, yet the printer itself will often times function perfectly.  Graphics and sound card drivers still haven't really caught up, despite the fact that they've had a little over two years to do so.  I won't deny that, if your system just happens to roll the snake eyes, you're in for some hell.

But it's not half as bad as you hear.  I installed Vista without a hitch; there is a separate part of the process where the OS scans the system for hardware, installs the necessary drivers, and then generates a list of anything that doesn't install properly.  Every piece of hardware I had was recognized.  In addition, my printer was recognized and installed in about five seconds, despite the fact that its own software would not install (and that its maker, HP, still hadn't posted a Vista-compatible version).  Even my USB Internet modem, which the Upgrade Advisor flat out said would not work with Vista, installed and ran perfectly when I supplied the drivers from the manufacturer's website.  The fact is, Vista has shipped with exponentially more drivers than any edition of XP.  Plus, it's possible to supply drivers from manufacturers' websites for the odd, esoteric bit of hardware that isn't immediately detected.  Sometimes it will work, sometimes not.  But this is only to be expected when upgrading to a new OS.  I don't seem to remember everything being rosy when XP came out, either.  This is yet another item of strong support for a dual boot scenario.

Software is no different from hardware.  All my software titles, with the possible exception of the ancient original Roller Coaster Tycoon, work flawlessly with Vista.  And the latter didn't work with Windows XP MCE 2005, either, so I don't blame Vista for this.  If your software acts buggy or otherwise just won't work, check the manufacturer's website.  If it's a fairly recent title, there will most likely be some compatibility patches or a whole new version of the application, all free of charge.  Just be ready to insert your product key, if required, in the latter case.  Now of course chances are that if you have some pet application from the mid-nineties, it might kick up a few Dickens.  Again, a strong case for dual boot.

The final and perhaps most prolific source of upgrade hell is, ironically, the upgrade itself.  This process works by performing an in-place upgrade of an already existing operating system (XP).  These sorts of upgrades are notorious for problems, and the Vista crop is no exception.  However, since you're currently viewing the full version page, this obviously isn't an issue for you.  Just remember, the best ways to install Vista are either as a clean installation (if necessary obliterating an existing OS) or a dual boot scenario.  Anything else and you might experience problems.  But this has always been the case with in-place upgrades.

-OVERALL-

I thank you for reading this far.  Most people won't.  I know this was pretty long, but I wanted to get it all out there for people to read.  Vista is not a bad operating system.  Was I absolutely floored with it?  It may require some more time, but it hasn't been the revelation Microsoft promised.  This is somewhat disappointing, and yet, somewhat reassuring as well.  I didn't suffer any downtime because I couldn't figure out how the operating system works, I didn't have any glaring compatibility issues, and my computer has worked virtually error-free ever since I first installed the OS. In short, the change, while not mind blowing, wasn't drastic or disturbing, either.  At the end of the day, just remember: It's Windows.  Love it or leave it, it's just Microsoft's operating system.  Vista will do the same thing as XP and earlier editions; it's not a source of inspiration or drive.  It's only as good as the person who's using it.
