If you are serious about learning Spanish this software isn't enough. You will need to purchase a Spanish-English dictionary - I like Barron's Spanish Dictionary because it came with a free down loadable software version - and a Spanish audio series such as Pimsleur or Learning Spanish Like Crazy (LSLC). A verb conjugation book is a good idea too, I like The big Red Book of 555 Spanish Verbs. Finally, just like back in the day, you should either buy flashcards or create your own to build up your vocabulary when you can't stand to look at the computer monitor even one second longer.

Now here's the part of the puzzle that Rosetta Stone will help you with: it is very repetitive and requires interaction with picture/word association. I have found that this burns the words into my mind and that the photos help me to recall a word or phrase. Rosetta Stone will also help you with reading comprehension as well as spelling - as long as you use all the lesson plans and resist the temptation to just do the fun parts. But the speech recognition feature is not as good at teaching you to speak Spanish as a high quality audio series such as Pimsleur or LSLC. 

The advantage of the speech recognition is that you can slow down the word or phrase being spoken. So if you want to slow down the word "mujer" you can hear how the native speaker uses the hard H sound on the J and a slight roll on the last R; it's great for pronunciation but not effective for learning how to handle yourself in a conversation.

In summary, Rosetta Stone is not a one stop shop. It isn't as mobile as an audio series on your iPod. And it isn't going to make learning Spanish a thoughtless and easy task. I recommend that you buy this software and use it but understand that you are paying $500 primarily for word/picture association and the ability to analyze your pronunciation of individual words and phrases. Also, keep your Spanish dictionary handy to alleviate any confusion. The whole childlike learning approach is good, but your adult skills will definitely help to speed up the process.
