The very early years of optical character recognition (OCR) were quite the challenge.  Programs cost thousands of dollars, as did the scanners.  None of them worked very well.  It would take longer to "clean up" the document after scanning than it would for the secretary to have typed it in from scratch.  All of that has of course now changed, and Omnipage 15 Pro takes the art and craft to a new level.

I have been using the Omnipage product for the last seven years or so.  I use it my law office (along with a number of the other Scansoft, now Nuance, suite of products) on a daily basis, many times through out the day. We use it to chew up everything from court pleadings, to 100 page plus contracts, to real estate property descriptions, which must be accurate down to the comma and semicolon.  Our needs are fairly simple - get the text into the word processor so we can respond on behalf of our client as fast as possible. 

OP15Pro offers a significant performance increase over its predecessor version 14.  It is faster (very much faster) and more accurate.  Work flow is straight forward.  There is of course the ability to manually set or readjust recognition zones, recognize and format as spreadsheets.  This new version easily handles text in relation to graphic elements and does a good job of keeping them all together in their right places.  Like most everything else, and especially with computers and software, nothing is perfect and there are times that OP15 misses a mark.  It is however, for the most part, very accurate and efficient, but remember, the old rule of "garbage in equals garbage out" still applies.  We have recently started taking pen scanner images of documents in the books at the local registries of deeds.  These are 200 dpi scans of documents that themselves are old photocopies of text placed on paper with IBM Selectrics or worse.  In other words, stuff from the dark ages of the 1970's and before.  We were pleasantly surprised at how well OP15Pro performed. With these very old images there is a need to clean them up, but nowhere near what it used to be.

I will comment only briefly about the company's tech support.  There has always been enough information provided to get the software up and running. The key, of course, is to read and follow the directions.  A task that is sometimes difficult in this "I want it now world." 

The one "free call" is not just for installation problems, but can come months or even years after the product is purchased.  I have also found on occasion that tech support will often answer the simple and obvious questions without first asking for the credit card.  Solving technical problems can be frustrating and time consuming.  Considering what the software is attempting to do, there fact that it accomplishes it at all seems at times to be just short of a miracle. Lastly, the company's knowledge base is filled problem solving information.  There is also a tremendously large user base that supports the product through Usenet and other forums.

Norm Michaels, Esq
