You will probably read 50/50 from the reviews on this software.  Having used the older Poser software... One thing I am a fan of is Miki and Terai Yuki...Japanese virtual beauties and if you are a fan of Japanese styled video games and the character designs, the fact that e-frontier is now the company behind Poser 6, I'm so stoked.

Granted, the software with bundles (best to buy it bundled with other cool software), there is a free software out called Daz3D.  Daz3D content creators make stuff for Daz3D and Poser and vice versa but no matter if you go with the free program or Poser 6, the result will be the same...expect to pay money for content.

I highly recommend getting the book "Pratical Poser 6" because it's very, very informative unlike the manual. Next thing...before you buy...mosey down to daz3d.com, contentparadise.com, renderosity.com and ask yourself, can you afford to buy the content.  Content costs anywhere from free to over $100+.  

And the good stuff costs money...maybe not a lot but it does add up.  The next thing to know is that after you buy the content, due to how the hair or clothing conforms to the body (or how it's placed), they are not organized.  To make matters worse is that the names that the creators have called their work are long that the window for the selections (Figure, Pose, Hair, Prop, etc.) can get cut off and so, it becomes a bit of a choir to go back and forth to certain folders.

But I got used to it and the thing is ....all developers for the content are helpful.  Content Paradise is a great place to buy your content as well as from the creators websites as well.

There is a lot of trial and error and I wish there were more undos...because really, although there is an undo...you mess up...you can't just undo...you have to start over your from your save file (and hopefully you saved).  

Nevertheless, the stuff I was able to create in Poser is wonderful.  I will say that I have spent a lot not just on the Poser and the bundle but the content.  It adds up quickly!!!  So, consider the benefits for you.  Although I love the characters from Daz3D and the ever popular Foxhair,  I'm more a fan for Poser but still expect to be buying content from Dax3D for use of poser. 
