I trusted that this software would do what it claimed to do and was so let down by its lack of performance that I am dumbfounded and left speechless.  During backup process I selected about 15GB of info to backup, spanning 4 DVDs.  Everything looked fine, except for TWO (2) simple errors that I received, indicating that those related files may not have been copied/backed up properly.  I figured no big deal, 2 files/errors out 15GB, I could handle that.  Based upon the false pretenses that my critical info was backed up properly (simple pictures, videos, mp3 files and Financial Files to include previous years tax files), I then proceeded to slick my drive.  Remember, only 2 simple, benign and almost inconspicuous errors during the backup process.  Everything looked great.

During the restore process, I then received numerous errors, each of them requiring me to click 'Yes' when asked if I wanted to proceed.  I got tired of clicking Yes around the 100 or so mark and decided to click no.  When you click 'no', EVERYTHING is undone; there is no 'ignore all' function so I had to sit through every prompt and got tired of it and decided that proceeding with 1000 files and answering yes would involve too much pain for me.  I then selected a smaller group of files to have restored, only the 'My Documents' folder but ran into the same situation.  Eventually I ran a test on a small folder to have restored and still ran into the errors but pressed through.  Hardly any of the files were received error free and those that had issues were never restored.  My guess is approximately 2/3 or 3/4 of my files were not restored and of course none that really mattered made it.

I had the latest update applied to the program, so that should not be the cause.  I would have done better to slick my entire hard drive without going through the backup process as I would have been at nearly the same place but without experiencing all the headaches, frustrations and an investment of hours, no DAYS of my time.

The program has been recently purchased by Microsoft for inclusion in the Vista OS, I imagine.  It will do well as a Microsoft product, as it fails to deliver upon its promises
