I have a Compaq Presario laptop with Windows ME. I wanted to upgrade it, so I decided to buy the Windows XP Upgrade. I have another computer that came with XP built in, and I like that system a lot.

Well, before I purchased this software, I specifically asked the manager at CompUSA if there are any problems upgrading from Windows ME to Windows XP. I was very specific. "No problem!" he told me, "It works great!"

NONSENSE!

Here is a list of hardware problems I had after loading Windows XP onto the laptop:
1. My touch pad stopped working.
2. My PCI bus started getting errors.
3. My wireless network card (D-Link GW-630) stopped working.

And these are just the things I noticed in the first day of using it!

I spent over six hours on the telephone with various technical service reps at Microsoft, uninstalling and re-installing the software, being put on hold, reinstalling drivers, restarting the computer over and over and over and over again... Six extremely frustrating hours!

Finally, the tech support people told me to uninstall the software. They said I should return the software to CompUSA.

Now for the fun part. CompUSA refused to take it back!!! After arguing with the very same manager who told me everything should work great, all I got was an offer to do an exchange for the same product. Then the manager said my system must not be compatible. Well, I showed him the "System Requirements" on the box, where it says "Windows ME."  According to the box, my laptop is perfectly compatible!  But apparently it's not.

Then the manager told me that he would not recommend upgrading from ME to XP. Well, intyeresting he says that now!  I reminded him about our conversation!!!

I even gave the manager my Microsoft Case Number so he could see for himself the problems I had and all the tech support people who tried to fix it for me.

In the end, I am stuck with software that does not work.

Learn from my trials. Do not buy this software if you have Windows ME. Only buy it if you can get a written agreement from your seller that they will take the software back after it messes up your system
