This program is average to below average in it's abilities.

That said, just hope you don't need any Roxio tech support.
Why? because Roxio's  support bites!

You CANNOT contact anyone online or by email for help;
whenever their dis-functional "web portal" [web-based support] system traps you in an endless loop. 

I needed an couple simples updates for a pc that is NOT ALLOWED on the internet.

It used to be you could download Roxio's PATCHES from any pc having internet access. 
Then burn patch[s] to a CD, or copy to floppy/jumpdrive.
Then "sneakernet" the patches to the pc needing them.

NO MORE.

What happened today was that their webpage was apparently trying to download/patch a roxio product directly on MY pc.
[EZCD5 doesn't exist on my pc].

Instead of simply letting me download it somewhere, like to my hard drive, vs patchging it directly from their webpage to my pc,
[which won't work in my case as I'm not using roxio, nor have it installed on my pc];
 apparently the morons that did the roxio webpage coding make the download/patch process STOP/END and proceed to send the customer back to Roxio's initial patch download page.

When you need a patch, all these endless loops and support games
are enough to get me looking for a different product/different company.

If you want to minimize human contact with customers, fine.
But let folks at least download the patches they need in order to keep their pc going.
Don't hand over your customer support system [almost] completely to a WEB SERVER. 
That ignorant arrangement works about as well as when companies try to save a few pennies and get rid of phone receptionists for customer service telephone calls.
Then they let customers wade through a 100 layer deep voicemail system to find the answer to a simple problem.

IT JUST DOESN'T WORK.

If a company won't provide access to PATCHES, 
even after I have logged into their website with username and password, [so they know is accessing their patches] 
AND they  don't offer any type of 
FTP site  as a download backup  option, then 
I sure as heck won't be buying anymore of their products.

I see why Roxio bought up CeQuadrat and other companies.
[Though I hate to see such quality companies be devoured like that]. 
When a competitor has a better product, why fight to improve your prodsuct's quality/features, when you can buy the other company out.
 
Thank goodness Nero is not under the Roxio umbrella.

