Used Norton antivirus the last 3 years. getting product in tax software promotions.  No problems until I installed 2007 6 days ago, when my system became really slow and then I was unable to access the internet.  Since their customer service phone number is not in the User Guide but buried in their website, I was thankful my husband's laptop was available. The first rep became exasperated when his scripted suggestions did not resolve my problem after 1.25 hours and tersely told me he was sending me an email file that would solve my problems.  I had identified it was the Worm Protection causing the problem so I turned that off, accessed the file and ran it.  My computer updated twice with no change - if the Worm Protection was on, I wasn't going to be able to access the internet.     

Worked up my patience and called that evening, only to hold for 48 minutes.  Finally got another native of India who spoke English worse than the first guy. At one point, we were waiting on a restart and I asked her a question about the computer being slower with the 2007 version and she responded, "OK, yes".  Long story short, I hung up an hour later with a link for an update to the 2007 product which I was assured would solve the problem and an email address for her manager. During these two calls, the software was uninstalled, reinstalled, and tested and I spent several hours using the online support.  I updated the product and it worked for a couple hours.  Then I was right back where I began, unable to access the internet unless I turned off the Worm Protection.

I started the day with 360 days remaining on my subscription but once I updated, the protection center now says my subscription is expired. When I check my Norton account online, it shows I have almost a year remaining before expiration and all their tips to update the proection center have pathetically failed.

Sent an email to the management address I was given, but of course, haven't heard anything.  I am uninstalling this product and will never use Norton again.
 
