Feeling more than a bit fleeced by McAfee's overpriced "subscription" renewal every year, I decided to give Kaspersky a try.  Installation went smoothly and everything seemed fine for 2 or 3 weeks.  Then one day my computer would not boot---just stalled on a blank screen right after the Windows XP splash screen.  When trying to boot up in safe mode, a list of the drivers currently loading scrolled down the screen.  It stopped at a file called kl1.sys and hung there forever.  A little research at work showed that this was a Kaspersky file.  

It may be just a coincidence that my system suddenly went kaput shortly after installing the new antivirus program, but I doubt it.  Attempts to use a recovery disk failed.  A trip to the local computer shop revealed that the data on my hard drives (which were in the inscrutable RAID 0 format) could not be recovered (unless I wanted to ship them to a recovery shop, and nothing on them was worth that much).  So they're going to reinstall windows, I'll have to do reinstall a shipload of software when I finally get my computer back, and, yes, I'll lose all the data that was on there.  (Gee, good thing I backed up all the kids' photos---well, most of them.  Thanks, Kaspersky!)

Anyway, perhaps my attempts at recovering the OS caused the worst of this.   Whatever the case, I believe the boot failure was caused by either the Kaspersky file being corrupted or a virus.  Who knows.  Kaspersky is to blame in both scenarios.  I do know one thing: I am not going to tempt fate by loading this program on my computer again.

And Kaspersky has yet to respond to my e-mail.  I got an automated "we received your e-mail" response, but nothing more, even though they state that they usually respond within a day or two.  That was over a week ago.  If in fact their software is in no way responsible for my computer flaking out on me, then I still do not apologize for the one-star rating, given their horrible customer service.

If you decide I'm insane or that this was just a fluke, at least do yourself a favor and make a decent boot disk for yourself before installing this product.  That might mean the difference between losing data/spending $$$ and just being inconvenienced.  And don't expect much assistance from Kaspersky should things go wrong.
