I did a little research after trying to install this product and found that Symantec is no longer rated very well for Anti Virus.  One site that states this is Consumer Reports (they are towards the bottom of the ratings).  It has become major bloatware and its stability isn't what it used to be.  Maybe this is why Peter Norton sold his interests and bailed out.  I am far from being a novice, but this thing gave me a fight the whole way.  So on with my saga.

First, this product was supposed to be for Windows XP and 2000 Pro.  Even the box says this.  But when I insert the CD in a W2K Pro machine all I got was an error box showing the error icon and the OK button.  Real informative.  Going through the back door I try to install without going through the CD autostart program.  Now I get a box that says it requires XP 32 bit.  So that leaves out 2 of the machines I bought this for.

So I go to a machine running XP.  First one loads OK, but it says it is incompatible with my firewall (ZoneAlarm) which I happen to trust a lot.  Then on the second machine it goes through the install (which takes 45 min) and then runs the autoupdate and hangs halfway through.  I finally had to abort it after it sat there an hour (I was hoping it was just another slow moment).  Rebooted and the program was no longer running.  Starting it up myself resulted in it failing to load.  Now I'm stuck, it won't allow me to uninstall nor reload it again.  Had to obtain a removal tool from their web site and it promptly removed every Symantec product on the machine.  Maybe this was the writing on the wall?

By now I'm a couple days into the drama.  Meanwhile, the first XP machine that loaded fine did another automatic update and guess what.  It locked up half way through.  Now it will not run and had to be removed the same way.

So I am now the proud owner of ZoneAlarm's Internet Suite.  It cost less than the NAV (both 5 user versions), and loaded much faster.  Ten minutes and I was done, where it was an hour into NAV when things worked and it loaded.  I am taking this up with Symantec and trying to get a refund.  They can keep it.  I've been less satisfied with every upgrade and this one finally broke the camel's back.  Maybe I'll try again someday if I come up with a new camel, but they don't grow well in Seattle.

ADDED 3-12-2007:   I have also noted that after removing NAV that things I could not explain before have been cured.  For instance, the web site [...] would not load many of it's pages correctly, they would show the text coding instead of html.  Now that I am NAV free, all of the pages on this site load with no problems.  Hmmmm..
