In short: too expensive, all eye-candy, no driver support from third parties, and the licensing model makes a re-install impossible without a telephone call to Microsoft to verify that you are not stealing their software!

I upgraded my Dell desktop system from XP media center to Vista Ultimate to "fix" several problems I was having with XP. I found this to be a bad decision. I first installed the 64 bit version of Vista, but found that there are virtually zero third party companies that support 64bit Vista! No drivers, no working printers, USB devices, No internet security suites, etc! I then decided to upgrade to a larger hard drive. The Maxtor utility transfer utility did not work with Vista at all! It totally produced an unbootable system that the install CD could not fix. I then re-installed the 32 bit version of Vista Ultimate included in my upgrade box using the same license key. The on-line activation said that I already had this key in use and the only choices were 1) buy a new copy, 2) type in a different license key, 3) use the telephone to call Microsoft. I called Microsoft and found that their automated assistant could not help and was transferred to a person with a semi-strong accent who asked if this was the first installation and then asked if I was using it on the same machine (yes, it's the same machine). He then read a very long activation key to me that I had to type in. I find this totally unacceptable. 

the 32 bit version has better third party support, but it's not great yet. I'm using a lot of beta drivers that I had to search hard to find. The changes in the OS are mostly eye-candy from the end-user's perspective. I find the new licensing model and policies assume you are guilty first, and then makes you prove it. In doing so, Microsoft is burdening the bulk of their honest customers with a lot of effort to just make their software activate. Jack-booted policies like this will result in me buying from Apple next time. At least Apple treats me like the honest customer that I am!

