
VISTA is appropriated named.  VISTA defines something great to look at.  If all you did was look at Microsoft Vista it would be the perfect operating system indeed.  Unfortunately Vista is a computer operating system that was designed to be used and there is the problem.  Vista is so secure and so over burdened with layers upon burdensome processor power robbing layer of sheer garbage it is rendered totally completely and utterly useless.

Vista will take the fastest XP computer and turn it into a slow worthless pile of trash.  Vista is so slow it takes me back to the days when I used to walk away from my IBM AT computer get a cup of coffee and walk around the building.  What makes Vista worse still is Microsoft Office 2007 the absolute pits in word processing.  Add Office 2007 to Vista and you won't be productive at all but dang won't it look pretty. If you just want to watch your computer make pretty colors and areo-glass catch yourself some goofs watch Vista.  When you want to work and be productive turn on your XP computer.  Windows 2000 and XP work hard while Vista Hardly Works at all.  Vista is garbage don't buy this dreck!

Everything you try to do on Vista is not allowed.  Almost every peice of equipment you run on Vista needs to be updated to so called Vista friendly versions.  The messed up Windows explorer to the point to where it is beyond useless.  The problem with Vista is that Microsoft had taken all the wizards and helpful features far as they could in XP.  In Vista they had to try to top a operating system that pretty much did what you asked of it with little fuss.  In Vista the software code writers were just changing things because they could.  Vista makes nothing better or easier.  In fact Vista is built in a manner that almost seems to go out of its way to make even the most simple compater related tasks unpleasant needlessly long boring and tedious.

In a word TEDIOUS IS THE BEST SINGLE WORD TO DESCRIBE MICROSOFT WINDOWS VISTA.  VISTA HAS SUCCEEDED IN BRINGING THE ENTIRE COMPUTER EXPERIENCE IS PAINFULLY NEW LEVEL OF THE PURELY TEDIOUS THAT HAS NOT BEEN DREAMT OF BEFORE!  I just wish I could give Vista no stars or more honestly a negative star rating.  I won't be buying Vista for my current systems and even when I get a new computer I will not be using Vista is it comes pre installed.  I have my own old trusty XP disks and I will reinstalled XP the last useful usable operating system Microsoft made.

XP is the goofy kiddie skool like interface is ugliest operating system Microsoft ever made but while it was an ugly duckling it did work pretty well.  Vista is by far the prettiest operating system Microsoft has ever made but it is pretty and dumb.  Vista is over burdened with programmatic junk has a way to high opinion of itself.  Vista is so much more secure because all the dumb security features make the operating system unusable.  Any computer you make unusable is the most secure because you can't do any productive work on it.  Vista makes your computer experience endlessly tedious and makes your computer system a must see door stop.  The philosophy of Vista seems to be that a good computer should be seen but never productively used.  Vista is a great system for that  well monied executive that wants to look busy while doing nothing productive
