I purchased Turbo Tax after reading the reviews here...someone had mentioned a glitch, but someone else mentioned a work around.  
Bottom line, if you can sit down with all your records and do the whole turbo tax from start to finish in one swoop,  you're fine.  
But if you need to start and stop while completing the schedule 2 business aspects of your tax return, get ready for a huge problem...it doesn't let you back in!  I went to their website where they had both a work around, and a report that if you update your turbo tax (very easy) the glitch will be fixed.  Not so, it did nothing for me.  Then I tried the workarounds...I got back in once but the next time I tried to use the work around a few days later, it did not work.
I ended up having to call an accountant 1 week before the 17th and thank goodness I was able to get an appointment.  
Also, if you have a business and don't understand some of the tax workings, like depreciation, it is very difficult to translate your former accountant's previous year's work into the new turbotax. It's not set up that way, so you need to know what you're doing.  I have a college degree and a lot of stick-to-it-ness, but I could not figure out and be sure that I was entering things correctly.  And then, it didn't matter anyway, as I couldn't get in to change anything in the end.

Finally, make sure you save, save, save as you go!  While doing my turbo tax and having spent a couple of hours already, I logged into their website to get some support.  When I "X"ed out of the internet page, it closed my turbotax screen that I'd opened on my computer.  Guess what?  It was all lost and I had to start from the beginning.  That was before I was even impacted by the "glitch" later.  This program does not remind you to save when you close, or ask you if you want to save, so be sure and save all the time!

So, good luck to anyone who tries this.  For me, it was a huge disappointment and I am returning it to Amazon for a refund due to the glitch.  I honestly don't know how they can sell something with such an obvious problem.  
