I had two new fully operational G5 computers with Panther operating system already factory installed.  I was contacted by Apple that a new Operating system was available, faster, yada yada yada.
I took the two computers into the store and purchased the new operating system Tiger.
The software proceeded to completely destroy both hard drives on both computers.
I returned them and told them I wanted my mony back. They refused since the software was oipened but agreed to replace the corrupted software and install it for free.
The computers never worked right since.
We were forced to continue working with these crippled computers as we have deadlines to meet.  It was a nightmare
as it took four times the normal time to do the work because of crashes etc.  We were already out a week with down time due to their negligence.
When the smoke cleared we took them back in and asked them to take the operating system Tiger out and replace the computers with the original operating system.  Another four hours standing in line.
We got them back to the office and low and behold they still did not work. We took them back again and were told by a snotty tech that we had dust in the computer as if that's what the cause has been all along. He told us never to come in with dust in the computer again even though the dust was in areas that we are not allowed into without breaking the warranty.
If this were the case why hasn't it been a problem for the past 12 years? and what am I supposed to do? only use the computer in an operating room?  The dust he displayed was extremely minimal the computer was only six months old and if it were such a problem why didn't the other four techs working on the computers notice it and clean it the first four times they had it on their bench?  
Bottom line.. I'm tired of buying new programs and computers that don't work. Tired of standing in line for hours. Tired of companies not having a complaint line. How handy is that? No wonder they keep saying your the first one that's had a problem with this.  That's literally impossible since I work in the entertainment indusrty that deals with editing and service bureaus that operate 100s of computers.  They all are avoiding Tiger because of known problems as well.  Apple is not addressing this and hundreds if not thousands of businesses are losing valuble production time due to their negligence. Instead of trying to develope a way for my daughter to dock her I-pod to a bowling ball, they should concentrate on making operating systems work in their computers.
Total time lost in our company is at least a week which is in dollars around 20,000.00. I can't imagine how much is being lost nation wide. Something needs to be done about this.  They need to be held accountable for the destruction they cause by distributing faulty product.To add salt to the wound they keep coming up with all these stupid ideas on why the computers are not running right after they destroyed them initially. There comes a time that if they can't fix them, they need to replace them and stop wasting the consumers time and costing them money.  We need a lemon law that applies to computers.  Then the manufacturers will make sure they function before they are sold. I know I can't get the money my business had lost back but I want them held accoutable for distribution of a faulty op and replace the computers they can't fix instead of sending me back to the office with inoperable computers
