If one is looking for an educational program to help a child learn there are much better programs on the market than Mia.

Unfortunately we bought this as a package of Mia and all suffer from the same issues. First, it takes 2 CDs and a game cannot be completed without switching to the 2d CD. That compounds the problem that Mia cannot be loaded on the hard drive so the game cannot be played unless the CD is loaded. Having programs that require the loading of CDs to play them is a pain in the neck because children do not handle CDs properly and an adult must change the CDs. Most programs have only one CD but this one requires two.

Mia programs are more like video games than educational software. They are comparable to video games like Spiderman and Sponge Bob which are puzzles to be solved. That is the problem with the Mia programs. The child spends an inordinate amount of time manuevering between the educational activities so that most of the time is spent manuevering and little time is spent on education. And it can be frustrating for the child, even a child that is very adept at video games. Yet because Mia is more of a video game than an educational resource, children who are video game geeks like Mia.

Mia's science is better than Mia's Math and Reading because at least a written scenario is provided which helps out. But like all the Mia programs, the program hangs at times so that the child cannot complete the game. Worse yet because the program is always active, the hibernation and suspend operations on the computer do not function so the program must be shut down should the child leave the computer.

Another problem that all the Mia programs suffer from is that the video only occupies a small part of the monitor screen so that the effects are dimished. Other educational software fill the full screen although to Mia's credit, when the user exits the program it restores the screen to its original resolution, something not all educational softwere does.

The Mia programs do have humor in them which is enertaining to children and what educational material there is, is somewhat useful.

The game is very lengthy. It takes hours to complete a mission. The oral instructions do not always match the written ones which are the correct ones, and are confusing to children. As the game progresses, lag time increases between segments
