I thought this would be a good product for my computer.  I didn't know that the only way to receive this product is over the internet via download.  During the process the prompts for the internet download ask you to remove (uninstall/delete) all of your known antivirus, spyware, and firewalls from your computer prior to install.  This leaves your computer susceptible when you receive an error message.  I received an error message that prevented me from completing the download. 

I purchased the software on Aug 3 and called customer support, they researched the problem and even took remote access of my computer to try and fix the issue.  They were unable to do so and then passed me to the second level of computer technicans.  Microsoft guards its secrets well and has varying levels of technical support, those that know the basics and those that know more. they asked me to set up a time span when I would like to receive a call from the "teir II" agents, I chose 6-9pm.  I received several calls over the next two weeks, all of them were outside of the specified time.  I missed several of them because I have a career and a life. 

When I finally spoke with an agent they again took over remote access of my computer and were also unable to solve the issue.  Here it was, two weeks after I purchased the software, I still did not have what I needed.  I was also unable to surf the web because the download process requires you to delete all antivirus and firewall software.  I called in several times druing the ordeal and the "teir I" agents just told me that I have to wait for the call, "they'll get to it when they get to it."  I was very upset with the customer support, I have no idea how the product is, but the customer support is just horrible.  Go to the windows live onecare home page and search for the "post your own thoughts" page through member accounts, you'll see that I'm not alone in this issue.  I have since purchased other software that cover what Microsoft says it will with onecare.  I did not have one problem with these installs.  

Please be aware that you might have to purchase technical support if you cannot download due to a problem with your operating system (seperate from onecare).  This costs an additional $35 ontop of the cost for onecare
