 I usually use Adaware to scan my computer weekly, and like others, I would like to try the trial version Spyware Doctor to scan my computer. The result was, I had more than 200 infections! I was amazed that my other virus scan programs didn't catch any of these infections, and my computer had been running properly. Of coz, I would like to remove these infections and so I paid with my creditcard and got the License No. 

After entering the License No. and Scanning, I continued to remove the infections that spyware doctor had caught. Before clickinig the remove button,I checked what I would delete and the files SEEMS OK to be deleted.  I had to restart my computer in order to complete removing the infections. I clicked YES to restart.

From then, my nightmare began, I couldn't start my computer AT ALL!!! Not even displaying the loggin window! My computer just kept restarting again and again.  After 5 times restarting automatically, I smelled something burning from my computer!!! I was so scared becoz there are some important files that i haven't backup yet! 

Endup, I reformat my computer!!! I couldn't login my old account again! Now, I have a new administrator account and lost all the softwares that i orginally have. Luckily I was able to reinstall 70% of the softwares (you gotta know the serial no. for most of the softwares are not working after reinstall, and that took me long time to find ways reinstalling them, and NOT all of them!) Some of my important files couldn't be opened again because I don't have the softwares to open them! 

I was/am still so mad about this! The spyware doctor removed my system operating files and that's why i couldn't restart my computer. Yet, i reinstalled spyware doctor again because I paid and only used it once. However, I couldn't use it after reinstalling like other softwares.  Even i followed the instruction online to reenter the licence no. that i purchased, it's just simply not working (the website said i don't have to repurchase and it should work!)

So i Paid $10 , only used the spyware doctor once, but I lost all other softwares that cost totally more than $400
