"Genius" is an educational simulation game, where you're building an industrial complex -- plop down factories, roads, houses, fire departments and such.  As the game progresses, you complete physics puzzles to obtain new technologies and product improvements.  You subscribe to newspapers, which contain answers to some questions and the knowledge or equations needed to solve others.  

The physics problems are entertaining, well designed, well documented, implemented excellently, and can be quite fun.  They are presented as problems you encounter during business operation, for example while developing a new product.  All of the information you need is provided.  The game will appeal to children 8 & up, but these physics problems are more like age 16 & up because they require high school math.  So, children & youths may need help from a parent who remembers algebra and preferably physics -- yikes!  Some of the questions are easy & fun.  Some require you to be comfortable with algebra, converting between units, and applying formulae.  A few are very difficult.  Fortunately, the questions are the same each time, so after figuring out the answers, you can write them down & just enter the answers next time.  Sometimes the game even gives you the correct answer after it is too late, so you can write it down for next time.  Unfortunately, I can't find a cheat sheet list of answers on the web -- too bad, this would really help.  The level of difficulty of these questions isn't a problem, just be warned.

The simulation side of the game is suffers in comparison.  The industrial simulation controls are poorly documented.  What each building does and when/why/where it is appropriate/inappropriate and how to run the game is somewhat of a mystery.  There's no way to figure out whether building something will be good or bad except trial and error -- logic doesn't always help.  Bad decisions spiral out of control, seem to lead inevitably to bankruptcy.  Unfortunately, wrong answers on the physics problems can have the same effect.  There is a "statistics" report that is supposed to give feedback on whether your company is making or loosing money, but this form doesn't have enough information.

So, expect some trial & error, some frustration, some algebra, some physics, & some reading through magazines looking for obscure clues.  "Genius" can be really fun, but could use some interface improvements.  Highly recommended for anyone taking physics in high school or college.
