This is the first review I have written in probably a few years.  Normally, I don't feel strongly enough about any product, good or bad, to bother entering a review.  With this new version of Quicken, I have something that I feel strongly enough to write about.

I have been using Quicken for close to 20 years.  I have built all of my finances around it.  For the past 6 years, Quicken has been going steadily downhill.  This latest version, I hope, represents rock bottom.  I don't see how the product could possibly get any worse.

Words cannot describe how bad this product is.  No functionality has been added in the previous 6 years.  What has happened is that the screen has become more cluttered with more links to Quicken's "financial partners", and more redundant links to other, old, program features, and more white space.  In return, the user has to page through tab after tab after tab to view the same information that previously fit on only 1 screen.  Further, each screen refresh now takes seconds, whereas in older versions a screen refresh was instantaneous.

Entering a simple transaction may require this bloated sofware to generate 2, 3, even 4 complete screen refreshes, each one taking maybe 1 to 2 seconds.  That means, once you hit the "enter" key to complete a transaction, you can be waiting as long as 8 seconds before you can move on to entering the next transaction.  As little as 3 years ago the same step required less than a second.  Obviously, time required will vary with your computer - but it is bad enough that Quicken now requires you to "downgrade" your Quicken software every few years - it is also necessary for you to replace your entire computer system at the same time just so you can realize the same performance level as you had in the previous version.  All of this with NO additional features or functionality.

There is a new kid on the block that I am switching to.  It is called "Moneydance".  It can import data from Quicken, it is fast, compact, and runs on any platform, Windows, Linix, Unix, Mac, even OS/2.  It is easier to use than Quicken and the support is great.  It is available for download - a functional evaluation version is free and the full version is only $30.  You can actually speak to a person to get help w/out having to pay.  Since I have been using Quicken for years, it will take a while to test Mondeydance out to make sure it works properly.  I am running the 2 side-by-side for a while to make sure the numbers agree.  So far, things are going well.  Then I plan to dump Quicken forever.  The well has run dry at Quicken; everyone who made the product great has apparently left the company.

Obviously the people at Quicken are free to make their product as bloated and as cumbersome as they want.  But they should not be allowed to force people to downgrade.  Yet, that is what they are doing.  I am absolutely positively through with Quicken, and I am not coming back
