This is the most god awful method for learning a language I have ever encountered. My jaw dropped when I saw that NASA and other government agencies were using this software in order to learn a foreign language. If that is truly the case then I demand my tax dollars back. It is THAT bad. The reason I gave this software a shot is because their marketing campaign has been asserting that it was the absolute definitive method for learning a new language. You're probably looking at it for the same reason.

First, you should know that you can purchase a set of flash cards from your local bookstore and it is just as effective as any rosetta stone softare and costs 90% less.

I used this software when I borrowed it from a friend in order to see if it was better than my current method of learning mandarin, which I'll get into later. I had an opportunity to make copies of this software when it was in my possession but decided against it. Not out of fear of piracy penalties, just plain because I would rather not have this software than have a copy of it. That's really how awful it is.

Imagine if your parents tried to teach you English by only teaching you noun/picture association? It wouldn't work unless you learned about proper English grammar and proper syntax. If you learned about verbs and other things. This program will assume you know all your Chinese numbers automatically. In the very beginning a picture of a little girl will show up and it will verbally say 'one little girl' in mandarin... however it will not tell you which word means the number one, which word means girl, and so on. It's a guessing game, not a learning experience.

All the positive reviews I've seen for any Rosetta stone software on amazing seem absolutely phony and fabricated to me (especially on the Rosetta Stone Japanese page). Please beware, and there is no better way to prove that what I'm saying is true other than trying a demo for yourself. I am sure that it is as bad as the full retail version that I used for a week.

The absolute best method I've used for learning mandarin has been pimsleur's audio cds. (I've never tried berlitz and pimsleur's other competitors, but I'm sure they are better than Rosetta stone). I have used Mandarin I and II so far from pimsleur, and I am able to hold impressive conversations with other fluent speakers of mandarin. The great thing about it is that pimsleur explains everything to you, allows you to say it out loud, there is no brute memorization involved with pimsleur, only natural language assimilation.

Just ask yourself this, when you learned English as a child. Did you learn    by learning how to read and write first? Or did you learn how to speak and listen first? Didn't you learn syntax first and then use what you learned to formulate your own sentences? That's exactly how pimsleur has taught me mandarin. I was surprised how I was able to create my own grammatically correct sentences with pimsleur only a few lessons in.

Go ahead and try a demo of any Rosetta stone language. It should be enough to keep you away from Rosetta stone in favor of any of their competitors.
I've heard good things about berlitz and others, but pimsleur in my opinion is the absolute best.
