I imported from Quicken for Mac to Quickbooks Pro for Mac and after 3 weeks of trying to make the result work, I gave up. The interface is far less intuitive than in Quicken (for example, entering vendor names by typing the first letters then scrolling through the choices with the arrow keys as in Q) does not work in QB, forcing one to guess at the exact vendor name the first time; and the imported names and addresses do not go automatically to vendors if they have been paid, and customers if they provide payments; rather they all go to an 'other names' list that, with a thousand or two names in it, cannot be simply dragged to the  correct list; rather each one has to be edited individually. When I started forming invoices and quotes for customers, I found that QB would forget the customer's address, sometimes including it and other times yielding a blank field. Also the field lengths in QB are often shorter than in Q, resulting in incomplete import of memo fields. In addition, export capabilities are negligible; one can only export transactions and other details in a proprietary format that can't be used elsewhere, unlike Q which exports in a readable and massageable format. Overall it seems that QB has been written by a different company than Q, and to a large extent the programs are not compatible even though the import from Q to QB appears at first viewing to work OK. It is better to start a new financial year with new software and enter all data in again by hand rather than try to make QB use Q data, in my view. I have switched to MYOB AccountEdge at a rather higher cost, and find that this clean start at the financial year beginning works OK for me. The MYOB product is a little clunkier than QB with more fields to fill in and numbered accounts all over the place, and its Q import is a total joke (with repeated questions on where to allocate accounts for each transaction without an explanation screen) so that import of any more than 10 transactions becomes laughable) but its export abilities are wonderful and I think its inventory control is better than QB; also, it has not yet lost invoice addresses the way QB did on me. One has to input addresses in fields before memorizing tranactions however otherwise the memorized transactions in MYOB don't update. I have found that MYOB is about as intuitive as Q when it comes to entry of payee fields etc; while QB has lost that data entry ease entirely. QB may have an advantage if your goal includes payroll however; MYOB seems to have a pretty sad service unless you are prepared to pay all of the taxes yourself.
