I have used Norton Virus Protection and Norton Internet Security for several years. I am currently running NIS 2006. My experience with these products has not been good but out of fear I just renewed my subscription. Since then I have had nothing but trouble with NIS. Since my renewal is within the grace period I decided to request a refund. I tried to do this on-line but found it an impossible waste of effort. Their web site and support are as useless as their product. From Norton Internet Security I clicked on support linked to their web site. Once there, I tried to apply for a refund but their system did not recognize my subscription renewal order number.  It did recognize my product order number for NIS 2006 but that is not refundable so no help there. I gave up on requesting a refund and decided to contact support. If you click on "contact us" There are 2 options, Telephone or Email. Telephone support was down because of an earthquake in Taiwan. I decided to try email. I clicked on email and got the following security alert: 
There is a problem with this website's security certificate.
The security certificate presented by this website has expired or is not yet valid.

Security certificate problems may indicate an attempt to fool you or intercept any data you send to the server. 
We recommend that you close this webpage and do not continue to this website. 
 Click here to close this webpage. 
 Continue to this website (not recommended). 
How ironic is that? I know I was on their site because I navigated there by clicking on support in NIS. You would think an internet security company could maintain their own security certificates. I'm not surprised though because everything Symantec does is designed to make you hate them. Their product is abysmal. It bogs my system down to a crawl, disrupts the performance of other applications and hogs system resources. If you put NIS on your computer you'd better get used to staring at the hourglass icon for long periods of time, Especially if you don't have tons of virtual memory and hard disk space available. Nortons CCapp retards start up forever and won't shut down when you want to log off. Recently I had to reinstall my windows xp operating system. After that I had major problems with NIS and had to uninstall it. It was then I realized how much better my system ran without it. I had already paid my renewal fee so I downloaded and reinstalled NIS and have had nothing but trouble since. I tried to leave feedback on Symantecs web site but typical of them, that does not work either. I wrote a long complaint, then clicked on submit. An error message came up saying to go back and correct the highlighted areas. When I clicked the back button all the text I had typed in was gone... just because I had failed to enter a subject line in the feedback report. I'll be damned if I was about to type all that information back in again. If you buy NIS you'd better hope it works the first time. If you think your going to get good support from Symantec or anything out of their website - think again. Oh, and BTW Beware, Symantec enrolls you for automatic renewal unless you go to their website and un-enroll. Once they have your money just try to get it back. Symantec sets up road blocks so you eventually just give up in frustration. This is how they make their money rather than by making a good product.
