I have been using Norton Anti-Virus since I purchased the Compaq Presario 4000. The reason I have stuck with Norton because this Presario came with Norton Internet Security 2002 attached to it. I never used the NIS 2002, though, but I purchased the Norton Anti-Virus (NAV) 2003 which I have bee using for the last three years. In fact I used the NAV 2004 for two straight years without any response from Symantec, then all of a sudden that subscription was eventually retired by Symantec. I liked the NAV 2005 (which Symantec six months prior to its due date subscription, which made me mad and hence my wanting to try NIS at a subsidized rate) because like NAV 2003, it could tell if someone or something was trying to intrude into your computer. It is after purchasing and trying NIS 2005, that I realized how low and base Norton can go with its software. First when I tried NIS 2005, it blocked all my websites. I couldnt access them and I could not read my e-mail (Whenever I tried to read my e-mail, the response would be that, that action has been cancelled). So I reformatted my hard drive and the NIS 2005 appeared to be working quite well until I tred to install Adobe Reader 7.08 and couldn't allow me to proceed. Moreover, it was snail slow in allowing me to read one mail to another. So I uninstalled NIS 2005 and installed NAV 2006, which appears to be working well. I have now purchased Tend Micro PC-cillin 2006 as well as McAfee Viruscan 2006 at subsidized rates, should Symantec pematurely terminate my NAV 2006 prematurely i.e. before the 366 days of subscription are over. I think one of the reasons why NIS could not work is that it is a program that it is trying to do more than it can chew. It tried to be an anti-virus, personal firewall, privacy control, antispam as well as parental control in one. It reminds of the days when it was better to purchase a cassette player separate from  the radio, since the technology at that time could not produce a good combined raio cassette player. I think Norton Internet Security is in that mode. It is not yet competent to produce a combined solution that is both antivirus and anti spam,anti-spyware at the same time. Hence the many complaints of its being a buggy program. At this stage, I would stay away from any program that calls itself "Internet Security." I may try Trend Micro internet Security which has received rave reviews from a couple of its users, but that will be if something goes wrong with my current NAV 2006. Otherwise, I am still wary of those programs that pass off as "Internet Security" such as "Norton Internet Security" or "Trend Micro Internet Security," pending their perfection of this technology at some future date
