(this review is of the Spyware edition)
NIS takes 25Megs of ram - ok for an all-in-one (if you have &lt;256Megs your lightweight CPU can't carry enough armor to make Windows really Zero-day Net safe IMHO)

NIS has most of the features I look for in a firewall/spyware/virus scanner/intrusion detector, BUT 
half don't work right, and some that do seem to fight every attempt to make them work.

Even after LiveUpdate this week,
One buggy automatic firewall rule autoloaded, and port 80 was open listening half 'naked' on the Internet.
I replaced it, and at the first passing probe my rule was erased, autoreplaced, naked again.
Only after I stumbled onto the secret trick (add a block all rule after the pass rules) did it close it.
It took 11 clicks (!) just to add the block all rule - miserable!
The log is a nightmare - pages of long sentences explaining "permitted once" 200 times, no actual info
	until I click on one of them. What's worse is, none of them I checked WERE "permitted once" IIRC.

NIS detected 2 trojan/spywares, but could not remove either.

Enabling program component monitoring started an avalanche of popups, all suggesting I block access, but I actually DO want IE to access the internet. 
Running Windows update brought a popup asking if 100's more dll's are ok. How would I know? I do want Windows updated. 
Great feature in theory, totally useless even if you know the names of every evil dll not yet invented.

If you have more than 1 or 2 programs not in the automatic ruleset, plan to either "permit all" or spend many hours actually writing the same set of 3 rules over and over for every autoupdating program you use - assuming you understand TCP vs UDP etc. Why no "permit all local + DNS + outbound port 80" choice? That would mean 1/10 the work! Jetico lets me pick "web browser" ruleset, so its UI from Hell gets used once per category.

After spending all day and half the night getting it working, I discover that it is not possible to save my precious rules - or to reload them. I would be less furious if I had a fresh install of windows, but not much.

All good, until a program autoupdates, and 3 more rules to write. Too angry for words.
Jetico lets me clone the old rules or edit them to update the program sig.

I would not use NIS if you paid me 10 times its price.
