I use Adobe Acrobat Professional extensively both as an attorney and as a researcher/author.  Because of the new features advertised which would enhance Acrobat storage of PowerPoint presentations, I bought it off the shelves at a local Staples office supply dealer.  I am proficient at my own installations and expected no trouble on this.  It acted like a virus.  The program did not finish installing.  Worse yet, it corrupted the underlying 7.0 installation and fixed that so the Windows Controller program could not install it. I had to hack through the registry to remove traces of it.  Finally I got to a stage where it appeared to be going through the registry process again.  Then I received the coup de grace -- a BAD SERIAL NUMBER MESSAGE.  I checked carefully and it matched the serial number exactly as on the label sent by Adobe inside its factory package.  I used MicroSoft OneNote to make a colored screen copy of this phenonema and marched the package back to Staples where they refunded my money.  It's too bad about the 20 plus billable hours as a lawyer lost to this process.  My experiences in calling Adobe in the past when I puzzled through a far lesser discourage me from wanting to talk to their technical support people (who too often know less than me given the increasingly apparent out-sourcing to people who read from a script and give us credit for knowing far less than we do).  At any rate, I am now bitter.  My 7.08 installation of Adobe worked great on my favorite computer where I had the bulk of my multimedia presentations which I hoped to reduce complete with sounds to the Adobe 8.0 format.  I suspect that wrong serial numbers were slapped on the packages.  I am deeply disappointed, even ANGRY at the inconvenience this has caused me.  I took it home and tried it on my desktop there and it also would not complete the installation and ruined my chances of a clean uninstallation of 7.0.  Deactivation of 7.0 could not take place either after installation of 8.0.  I don't know what Adobe was thinking -- or if they were thinking.  I have been a loyal customer of theirs for many years, but I'm thinking distinctly non-charitable thoughts about them this early morning.  I hope they get their act together -- soon.  They owe us all a quick fix and patch and they need DEEP REPENTANCE for the damage this did to Windows XP home installations which also appear to be corrupted in the process of installing this "upgrade" program which acts more like a computer worm or virus than a program
