This is my first public review of any product. I generally dont have the time or motivation to go throught the process of posting a review. However, I have never had such a negative experience with a commercially available software package before. From beginning to end, the process of repeated attempts to install and then trying to remove NIS2007 was time-consuming, frustrating, and crippled my computer. 

First the operating environment details. I'm running XP-Pro SP2 on a 2.6ghz pentium with 1GB of RAM. 

Upon the de-installation of the existing NIS 2006 and Spyware Doctor applications, I proceeded with the installation of NIS 2007. The installation appeared to go cleanly, but upon attempting to restart, my computer hung on shutting down, and upon attempting to come up, I got a blank desktop with no task bar, start menu, or desktop icons. Later, as I was working with Symantec support and was able to get a desktop back, I also experienced things as not being able to bring up the control panel or click on the 'My Computer' icon. Of course, I had no internet access during the whole ordeal. 

Since I couldnt find any phone number contact in the ridiculously minimal instruction manual that came with the package, I called my local ISP to find out what they knew about the affects of using NIS 2007. Through them I got a phone number for Symantec support. As a side note, the manual points out ways to get support if you have access to the internet and email, but gives no direction if you dont have access to those. 

Over the course of the next 4 days of working through my issues with NIS 2007, my experience with Symantec support left me with the impression that they were mostly incompetent and quite innefective. I give Symantec credit for having 24/7 phone support, and I did work with one knowledgable support person there named Jay, but most of the experience was frustrating and time-consuming. The help desk is located in India, and the first problem is that they couldnt hear me though I was speaking loudly. The next problem is that I had to answer the same questions repeatedly as if the person didnt understand my answers. On a number of ocassions, I felt the person on the other end was just going through a script, and wasnt listening to what I was saying or reading my growing case notes. I got passed around a lot to different people and spent a lot of time on hold. They kept trying to get me off the phone even though we hadnt worked through the problem completely. In one instance, the helpdesk person was trying to tell me that things were all fixed even when I had told her there was an activation error during the re-install we were working on. 

Having worked with tech support and edited registries, and tinkered with start-up configurations and various services settings, I could never get NIS 2007 to install (tried four times). Trying to un-install the package turned out to be almost as difficult and troublesome. Uninstalling has left me with problems with my computer I have yet to work out. I still cant use my scanner because it complains about a symantec DLL issue. I have no idea why that would be. 

Anyway, I would rate this product less than zero if I could. There was nothing that went right, and a lot that went wrong. I cant believe Symantec could put out such a pathetic piece of software with such inffective support. I'm returning NIS 2007 and trying my luck with Zone Alarm. 
