The first version of Easy CD Creator I used was CD Creator 4 basic. It was okay, pretty much what it said it was: basic. I got the upgrade to that from an Ebay auction and it worked pretty good. Later due to lack of support by the manufacturer for new CDRW drives in good old version 4, I upgraded to CD Creator 5 Platinum (The version being sold here.) This too worked pretty good - for a little while. Then the operation was moved over from Adaptec to Roxio, and from that point onward, things have been more thorny than rosy.

Roxio will REQUIRE you to register the product in order to download the (ONE) utterly essential update to keep this thing running. Perhaps you don't mind that, but I feel it's a somewhat minor invasion of privacy. Plus you have to keep track  of your password to the website and if you change ISP's you will have to RE-REGISTER. A hassle to say the least. Also , since Roxio took the reins, there are no further updates being provided. Instead Roxio tries to "encourage" (read "browbeat") you into getting the software upgrade for even more money. This upgrade will NOT work on Win98SE, which I still use for various reasons. So IF I were to upgrade the software AGAIN, I would also have to spend the extra money for a new operating system with all the faults and foibles that can introduce with other apps that I need and still use. If you have money to burn along with all those shiny round coasters you are going to be making, I applaud you. I prefer to keep a little cash for retirement.     

It is difficult if not impossible to get support from any real carbon-based life form, and the website gives little or no support for some of the issues you may face, such as getting "Illegal Request" errors from Direct CD, or inability to format or erase CDRW's that was once possible in version 4. Also, any CDRW's created in version 4 MAY NOT be readable with the new software, or at the least there are some technical issues with this. At any rate, it is not neccessarily all that "EASY" unless you are fairly technically inclined and understand (or are willing to learn) some of the finer technical points in CD recording technology. I prefer not to be bothered with it, I just want to create some CDs.    

I now find that some functions do not work appropriately at all, especially Direct CD, a program that originally provided the ability to do "drag and drop" writing of files to a Read/Write CD. Now I find that Direct CD is non-functional, and the only CD's I can write are CDR's, and there are problems growing in that area as well. Speed of the CDRW or brand of the recording media does not seem to be the issue. The software simply refuses to work as it once did.

It shouldn't be called "EASY CD Creator". Perhaps "IRRITATING" CD Creator would be more appropriate. 

In Summary: This does not deserve stars. Perhaps a few "BLACK HOLES"? While I once would have given wholehearted supported this product, regrettably I cannot support it with the same enthusiasm now. 
 
