Do not buy this.  Go with Mac OS X 4.2 Tiger, it doesn't crash or lock up.  Plus you will get access to really cool applications out of the box that lets you do almost anything media-wise.  I could go one for hours how the Macintosh operating system is better but I will say one last thing...  Tiger is faster than Windows.  Research has proved that Tiger and all the other operating systems conserve CPU performance to such an extent that 90%-100% of the speed is left for applications and such.  Windows eats up so much speed along with DOS that from 20%-30% of the performance is left for the user.  That puts a normal Windows computer (3Ghz) at less than 1Ghz.  While a normal Mac computer (2Ghz) runs at 2Ghz.  Plus the fastest Mac is a dual G5 each running at 2.7Ghz.  So actual speed is 5.4Ghz.  The fastest Windows computer is around 3.6Ghz which runs around 1Ghz.  That is a HUGE difference (5.4Ghz-1Ghz.)  When Apple moves to Intel chips next year (about,) The Macs will run around 6.4Ghz if not more.  That is an even MORE HUGE difference.  Take my word for it.  The Windows world is not worth it.  Whenever I go on my Mom's computer (which is running on Windows XP,) I encounter a lock up or annoying hickup in the OS, EVERY TIME!!  I agree that a good amount of people don't find Windows to be unstable, but even when I go to a friend's house I notice them there as well.  Every Windows computer I have used for more than 20 minutes has locked up.  But it's not just this, it's also that Tiger is so much easier to use.

Take my advice (I've converted many people) and switch to Mac... Please.  I swear that most of you who read this and switch will be very pleased.  It might be a little wierd at first to get used to the new OS, but I mastered it in a day when it took me months on Windows.  Plus you can purchase Microsoft Word for Mac as well (which I think is easier to use than the Window's counterpart.)

So go and throw that ugly Windows computer away and get a spanking new, shiny white, STABLE, Mac!!!
