1 Star is being generous.  I've been an ACT user for almost 20 years.  I think it's time to say good-bye.

Reasons:

1.  2007 version is agonizingly slow.  Effects my whole system.  I added 1 gb of RAM bringing my total to 2gb with no improvement.  Seems like 5 secs to execute ANY command in the program.  Doesn't seem like much bu count it...one one thousand, two one thousand...  It adds up when you use the program all day, every day.

2.  Support is atrocious. You get 60 days after purchase and then can't even access their tech moderated forum unless you pay $300 a year.

3.  It ought to be broken down.  I use it to manage client information and communication, I don't need all the Opportunity garbage and one can spend more time managing a process than actually doing the darn thing.

4.  Support sticks.  In the last couple of years, I've never had a phone call answered in less than 30 minutes...and that includes when I was dumb enough to pay the then $200 a year.

5.  Support stinks even when you pay 300 a year.

6.  Support is a ripoff.  One support plan.  No by incident option.  300 bucks or nothing.

7.  Did I mention that support is the worst?  They seem to do things on the website and then think about what they just did.  Navigating their forums is a nightmare.  I had to click around for 10 minutes this morning to figure out how to post in an unmoderated forum.  (BTW, 4 messages total in the 2007 section in 6 months.  I guess most pay their 300 bucks for the moderated forum.)

8.  An example of how time consuming it can be:  It took me a week of phone calls with several reps to get the UPGRADE installation to function.  And I mean it didn't function at all.  It made such a mess that I had to reformat my hard drive to get it to install.  A first in 20+ years of computer use.

Sage seems to think this program is the only one a user installs on their computer.  Bad attitude.

SAGE and ACT! are poster children of everything bad about the software industry today.

Do yourself a favor, if older versions are working for you...stay there.  The enhancements in 2007 are not worth the trouble.

If you're looking for a contact manager, look elsewhere.

