Don't buy Vista--any version, yet.  MS released it WAY too early.  Some examples why:  

* Too many hardware drivers not yet available, i.e., Creative Audigy  sound cards; Nvidia graphics cards, and Linksys wireless network components, just to mention a few.  When I contacted product manufacturers, I sensed a ho-hum attitude.  Moreover, some peripherals are totally incompatible.  Example:  My Epson Perfection 1650 scanner was rejected by Vista, so I was forced to buy a newer model (Epson Perfection 4990 Photo).  Hmmmm.  One wonders whether these sorts of incompatibilities result more by design (purposely?) than from insurmountable technological deficiencies.

*  Too many Vista compatible application updates are not yet available. 

*  The "Upgrade" versions of MS Vista (versus the "full" versions) seem to be full of bugs.  Soon after I installed Vista Ultimate, I encountered a major problem that MS tech support has been trying to resolve for over two weeks.  It is so pervasive that MS Outlook 2007 has been affected to the extent that some of its features are not available.  It appears that during the installation process, something went awry with "Windows Event Log" and the "Event Viewer."  Furthermore, the latest version (Vista compatible) of Diskeeper 2007 Pro will not launch, most likely for the same reason. 

*  It appears MS went way overboard on security features to the extent of paranoia.  Every time you click on just about anything, a pop-up will appear asking your permission to "allow" it to launch.  Very annoying, and VERY unnecessary.  It's as though MS adopted an underlying assumption throughout the development process that the average end user has an IQ of about 85. 

*  MS tech support quality has deteriorated substantially.  Most of the time when you call you will reach someone in India.  Albeit these people are very polite, they cannot think "outside the box."  Nor are they in touch sufficiently enough with the nuances of the English language, thus impairing expeditious understanding on both sides of the conversation.  Based upon my recent experience with these folks, I sense that a soccer mom could be trained as a MS tech support rep in very little time. What I mean by that is this:  During my multiple contacts with them I developed the feeling they rely totally on reading from manuals, scripts, and on-line knowledge bases.  In other words, they seem not to be able to analyze and troubleshoot problems independent of external references.  

* Bottom line:  Do NOT purchase Vista until AFTER service pack 1 is released, or whatever they happen to name their first major fix-it update package.  For now, stay with the more reliable XP versions.  I truly regret that I had to discover all of this the hard way.  It has been very costly in more ways than one.
