This was my first year using Turbotax, and it's also my last!

Since 1992 I was a faithful user of HR Block's Taxcut for Mac.  In spite of it costing more than the Windows version, I used it every year except for 1995 when various problems related to my AOL dial-up service prevented me from using it.  Since TurboTax is the only option out there for people who use a Mac, you'd think I'd be continuing to use them for now on, - but you'd be wrong!

I purchased my copy of TurboTax Deluxe from Amazon.com to save $5.  Since TaxCut made certain that no information from it's software could ever be imported by other software, I filled in my personal data as I began.  I was a little disappointed that TurboTax doesn't allow you to skip the "step-by-step" method, and just fill in the actual forms the way TaxCut did as an option.    While the downloads were an annoyance (6 or 7 separate files each time), for the most part the software was OK.  Picking up from where you leave off wasn't always possible, but 5 or 6 clicks would get you back to the right spot.

My first major annoyance came with the state software.  After filling in some data, and seeing the overall results, I wanted to look at the forms to see what they were doing with my data.  I also needed to see where they had placed data that was imported from the federal information I'd entered.  Well, there's no way to see your data on state forms until you're finished and print them out (or preview as .pdf files from the print dialogue).  When you do that the software somehow magically creates the state forms for printing, but the state forms don't seem to exist anywhere else except in that print spool!  I found this extremely annoying, and a real time waster.

The final blow, however, was when I got to filing.  The advertising is an unnecessary annoyance.  Since I don't owe any state taxes, I just usually print those forms out and mail them in --- it doesn't make any sense to me to pay for filing something when I don't owe anything and I'm not going to benefit from that "faster" refund.  Then I came to the crusher.  TurboTax wanted $30 for e-filing my Federal forms!!  TaxCut charged $14.95 and $15.95, but then they always rebated the cost.  I was told that Intuit used to do that, but obviously they decided to make some additional money this year.  Earlier in the day that I filed the saw the head of the IRS on CNBC being interviewed. He said that e-filing makes their job so much simpler.  Well, if it helps them that much, they should devise a way for computer users who buy software to file returns directly to the IRS without Intuit, H R Block and the others as middlemen.  And they should let us file for free if it makes their work so much easier.

While I have had my doubts about the services that allow you to fill out online forms, and then do your filing for you, I haven't heard of any security problems with them, so that's the direction I'm planning to take next year.  As far as I'm concerned, TurboTax blew it by being unfair with their e-filing fees
