I have been using Turbo Tax since 1998, I use computers every day, and (as an engineer) I am used to using difficult applications (Pro-E, Mathcad, UG, etc). This years edition of Turbo Tax Deluxe was the worst Turbo tax I have ever seen (& I usually like it very much). I purchased in January and had to update 4 times. One update took 6 hours (some of us live in the boonies and broadband is not an option). In addition, the application brought up menus and selections that were not applicable (farm income at the PA State form). When I tried to delete the entries (at the Federal level as instructed) they would not. My 1 business expense entry kept getting duplicated ("copy 2" and every time I deleted it, it would reappear on the next pass through. Every time I entered the "State" tab, it acted like I was never there before with a "Start State" button that always lead me through all the same questions (It did retain my answers from prior visits). Where was the "Continue State" button? I also noticed that using the "back" button and then moving foreward again caused never before seen dialogs to occur, even though the same "foreward" choices were made. Once I backed up to check something & then moving foreward caused my state tax status to jump from +$46 to -$1548!! Upon backing up I saw that some of the check boxes regarding the sale of my home were unchecked. I did not check them, but rather backed up two more screens, then moved foreward again the two screens and the boxes were again checked! One more foreward click and my taxes again returned to +$46. One of the years I liked best was when there was a "checklist" so you could see where you had been and what was already addressed. This years State was definetly worse than the Federal, but even that was a dissapointment. I did complete this years filings & submitted both online, I hope I don't get burned! Turbo Tax!-- Please improve for next year or it may be my last year. You realize that at 59.95 + 39.95 filing + my time + aggravation like this year, and an accountant is looking attractive. If you are on the "inside" you probably know why this is happening...outsourcing code gen to India, not  outsourcing code gen to India, programmer cut-backs, programming application changes, archiving application changes, project management issues, whatever. Just realize that there is a problem & fix it
