This is one of the best bargains that i've seen, "essentially" you get 3 filters for the price of one.  The image quality with these filters is great, the 812 (warming) filter is by far a favorite giving back the color richness that flash photography so often washes out, that is unless you have the patience for constantly tweaking your flash power.  Aside from the 812 the UV protector is basically a clear protective filter.  While it obviously has advantages over clear glass, I tend not to think of it as any different.  This too is a great filter which I use about half the time because it doesn't affect color hues or change f stop values too greatly while it takes the worry out of carrying the camera around ready for any candid shots that may occur.  Finally included is the circular polarizer. This filter adjusts the amount of uv light entering the camera by spinning the filter to the direction the uv rays are entering (or turning the thingy till things look better). This lens is great for sunny days and will take surface glare off lakes and glass making them transparent again.  It also makes colors more crisp in general when photographing buildings and other large "reflective" man-made things. So things sound great so far, but now to why I only give this item 4 stars.  While Tiffen is known to be one of the best at photo and video filters, they have quality control issues that do no live up to thier reputation.  In my case the 812 filter arrived with a discoloration in the glass.  While it was didn't hurt image quality, with the flaw being towards the edge of the filter, I none the less didn't want to find a situation in which the flaw would diminish quality.  Seeing as it was not amazon's fault my first e-mail went to Tiffen for a replacement which they said they would gladly do, but only after I send them the filter and they recieve it would they ship my replacement (not an option in my circumstances).  Instead Amazon's wonderful customer service shown through again, and within 3 days they had replaced the entire set.  The second set arrivided without flaw but since my other two filters were in perfect condition I traded just the 812.  I havn't had any other issues and i'm very satisfied with my filters. The only other word of warning would be to that of the circular polorizer. While I recieved 2 that were flawless occassionally I have read in reviews customers have received ones that were assembled backwards making the lens useless. A quick way to check to see if your CP is working correctly is to hold it, thread facing yourself, and look at an LCD monitor or TV and spin it until the picture dissapears(obviously working correctly). I still wouldn't pass up this deal knowing what I do now, chances are everything will show up perfectly but none the less if you're concerned order it before you need it and check everything over carefully. Amazon is always the best for returns and will often ship a replacement the next day with overnight shipping
