I, like many people, research high-tech purchases before buying because of the complexity of the items and the invariably high cost of some of the items.  Digital cameras are no exception.  I was looking for a replacement for my KonicaMinolta Dimage Z1.  My requirements were fairly straight forward:  the new camera had to have a 10x zoom, no less than a 5mp processing chip, and third, get my photography skills to the point that the camera after this new one could be a DSLR.  I have read the reviews here on Amazon regarding the performance of the S9000, and while some of them, I felt, were right on, others did not read the professional reviews before purchasing this camera.  The intended use of this camera has never been a point and shooter.  While the S9000 does possess automatic functions to "streamline" use, these features are whoafully inadequate for the overall optical and proccessing capibilities that Fuji strove for in it's design.  Let me for clarifications' sake say this loud and clear:  IF YOU WANT BREATHTAKINGLY BEAUTIFUL, CLEAR, VIBRANT PICTURES WITH PERFECT EXPOSURE USING THIS CAMERA, THEN YOU MUST USE THE MANUAL SETTINGS.  THIS IS NOT A POINT AND SHOOT TYPE OF A CAMERA!!!!!!  Out of the box the S9000 has been a Godsend.  Not only are the images super sharp with no hint of edge fall off that hampers other high res cameras, but the exposure is so perfect that I question my ability for luck.  The setups are very easy and the controls and functions are a snap.  The white balance and shutter speed settings are not easy concepts to grapple with in potography, and yet Fuji has made short work of them with their intuitive design.  There really are two photographic miracles at work in the S9000:  one, is the processor that captures detail and color that you feel guilty for paying so little for something that is better than much more expensive equipment, and two, is that the exposure is so good that if I did not know better, I would think that I was using an advanced film SLR.  This is an absolute rave for this product.  The fit and finish are superb, ergos are comfortable and controls easy to find and use, and it fulfilled my need for a camera that would get me ready for a DSLR but not be too complex.  The only downside to this camera is that it will take time to process the image before exposure, but outside of some DSLRs, this is a problem with all digital cameras.  It is true that this camera is big and heavy, but then photographic perfection ain't free.  Home Run FUJI!!     
