My 2 year old is really active and my point and shoot camera cannot keep up with him.  And I also don't like the washout look when I uses flash.  So I researched about which SLR will best meet my needs, mainly catching fast action, candid moments and low light photos without flash.  The Canon 30D comes up top on the list.  It has the best high ISO performance in its class (better than Nikon and Sony).  And when I combine the 30D with the fast zoom lens EF-S 17-55 mm f/2.8 IS, the result is amazing.  I can stop any action in daylight, capture every candid expression of my 2 yr old with the fast burst mode, and take indoor or night photos without using flash or tripod.  Portraits are also excellent with sharp image and beautifully blurred background (bokeh).  Even the dimly-lit decors of the Disneyland Haunted Mansion came out superb when we went there for the Halloween party at night, without flash or tripod.  This is really an important factor for me to buy this camera, as taking pictures with a tripod is not an option when your subject is an active 2 yr old.  But you will need a good lens to make this work well.  If you use a cheap kit lens, then it will probably not matter which camera you pick.  Remember that these 3 are all very good cameras and the small differences in image quality you see in reviews are apparent only when they use the best prime lens (not the kit lens)and crop the pictures to magnify the details.  The Sony is a very good choice if you are on a budget and don't need low light performance (use flash and save money).  The Nikon has more custom function than Canon, and it is really as good as Canon.  They both have their strength and weakness.  Canon just happens to have slightly better high ISO performance and that suits my need better than Nikon.  To be fair, I should mention that the Nikon D200 tops most reviews as the camera of the year, beating the Canon 30D overall.  But the D200 is a bit too advanced for an amateur like me, better suits someone more serious about photography.  The D80 is like a "mini" D200, but slower.  So it really boils down to what you really need and how much you want to spend.  Shooting in low light without flash will need good high ISO performance, a good fast lens (with wide aperture, usually expensive), and image stabilization.  If that's what you want, the Canon 30D with the EF-S 17-55 mm f/2.8 IS will not disappoint you
