I think it very well could be so I'm not going to differ with those who say it is.I bought this to use with a new 5D and itt's simply outstanding in every regard. So far, I've kept it on the 5D and can't bring myself to take it off. 

I considered a couple of lenses, including the IS 24-105 f/4 which has a lot of appeal and the price is about the same. But this was the lens I chose in part because I already have a the 70-300mm f/4.5-5.6 DO IS Lens and the overlap seemed a waste while the extra stop helps.  I have no regrets about it. sharp as a tack and quick. 

I note that this is not compact lens, especially with the hood on and it can stretch out a lot when you widen the field. It is also not light. This lens and the 5D will give your neck and back a pain, assuming you work with more than one camera. But the focal lengths covered are just about ideal and require none of the compromises that a longer zoom range require. For that, I've got an 18-200 on a 20D. The 70-300 DO, while not an L, specs out in that range and has the virtue of real compactness, but it' not a lightweight. These two lenses cover just about everything for me. And I can keep the 10-22mm on the 20D for the extra-wide shots.

Since writing the initial review, I've since traveled for several weeks with this lens and it fully lived up to expectations. Given the difficulties of travel these days, I am concerned about the problem of not being able to carry it with me -- not a problem to date except for Britain. But always possible. And, despite the weight, I might favor the 70-200 F/2.8L IS USM as a second travel lens- I like the brightness of the focus.

One suggestion. There's a temptation to use this lens wide open a lot of the time. It's very good and sometimes that's the best thing. But I've also found this lens makes beautiful images stopped down a good deal for short night time exposures on a tripod and a remote release. The effect with lights, etc. is considerably different along with the extended depth of field. 
