I wanted to buy a compact slim d-camera. Those with larger zoom are quite bulky, you can't carry around all the time. I think a slim camera is a better choice. I slip into my pocket while wondering around and come across something nice and take a picture of it. You can't do it with a huge camera. 
After I made up mind about a slim camera, my choices were either Casio Exilim or Sony DSCW series. Casio Exilims are very sexy. They have a lot of mode scenes. They also function as voice recorder. You can take pictures of book pages etc. They have anti-shake capability which is said to reduce blurred images. I was almost buying a Casio Exilim. Being a diligent person I wanted to search more and more. 
I found out that the so-called anti-shake feature is a bogus. Many people found it useless. That was a good reason to choose Casio. Then I found the picture quality of Exilim is not really good.I found some pictures taken with Exilim. They were soft, not crisp colors. Search the web reviews made by photo professionals. Casio Exilim is rated significantly less than Sony in picture quality. With ISO 200 noise was still detectable in most reviews . Those same reviewers however found Sony DSCW doing a better job . There was no noise with ISO 400 which means even in lower light condition Sony did a better job (less granularity in pictures with low light). Big difference!.
One feature of Sony that made it very attractive was its strong macro. It is 0.74 inch which means you can bring your camera 0.74 inch (2 mm) close to an object (say a bug) and still take a brilliant picture of it. 
Now comparison of Exilim and Sony to summarize:
Casio Exilim
Anti-shake (it's a bogus)
Slim   
Lower macro (2.5 inches)
Lower picture quality (detectable noise at ISO 200)
A lot of scene modes
Quick shutter
Sony DSCW Series
Slim (in fact it is slimmer)
Higher macro (0.74 inches)
Higher picture quality (No noise in ISO 400)
Not a lot of scene modes
Quick shutter
So.....I purchased a Sony DSCW 7 Mp. I took lots of pictures.
They are all brilliant, detailed and crisp, true colors.
I tried macro and took pictures of bugs. You can see the hairs on the legs of bugs. Absolutely no noise whatsoever, no blurry.
It's a marvel of technology. I took pictures of fireworks in July 4th using high ISO setting. They came out brialliantly like professional pictures.
It also uses a different kind of battery that you can't buy at your grocery which can leave you vulnerable. So you may wanna buy a spare one (about 40 bucks). But you can always recharge it. And it lasts much much longer than AAA or Nimh batteries. 
It was a perfect choice. I highly recommend it.
