I shoot with a Canon 20D and have used the Canon EF 75-300mm f/4.5-5.6 III USM lens. I've always noticed the limitations of this lens when shooting amateur softball. I reviewed the lens lineup at the Canon website and decided on the Canon EF 100-400mm f/4.5-5.6L USM Lens. The 100-400mm is a great lens, but it can be a bit soft.  For that reason I decided to add the Canon EF 70-200mm 2.8/f IS USM telephoto zoom lens to my lens collection. 

This is a serious lens meant for serious photographers. Being an L lens, there is a lot of features and is manufactured with better materials with a high level of dust and moisture resistance. The construction is sturdy and consists of 23 elements in 18 groups.  The four Super UD-glass elements largely eliminate the secondary spectrum reducing residual chromatic aberration. An improved 8-blade circular aperture offers a more pleasing out-of-focus image.  The Canon EF 70-200mm lens weighs in at about 3.24 lbs/1,470 g, and accepts 77mm filters with a minimal focusing distance of 4.3 ft/1.3 m.  This lens is compatible with the extenders 1.4x II and 2x II.  Be sure to get a good quality UV haze filter to protect the front lens element.

Being white, this lens looks a bit strange, but helps keep it stay cool when shooting in the sun. Some people are concerned that being white, it attracts attention to criminals. From my experience, my 20D attracts attention regardless of what lens I put on it. In addition, I most likely have a camera bag and tripod/monopod with me to further attract attention.  I personally doubt a thief looking for something to steal is taking the time to evaluate the cost of the item and are more concerned with the ease of taking something they can unload. I try to make things difficult for would be thieves and have insurance as a back up. 

The dual IS system has two modes. Mode 1 is for stationary subjects while mode two is for moving subjects. It is recommended that the IS function is not used on a tripod; however I have used it on my monopod with success. The IS helps to eliminate camera shake and helps stabilize the lens when shooting from a moving vehicle. While there are limitations to what the IS can do, it can give you a few extra stops. Just keep in mind, the IS attempts to eliminate camera movement, not the movement of the subject being photographed. 

This lens permits for auto or manual focus depending on how the switch is set. There is also a switch to shift from a 1.4m/4.6ft to infinity or 2.5m/8.2ft to infinity. 

Included with this lens are the Tripod mount, lens hood, and storage case. The tripod mount is the best option to use when mounting to a tripod. This helps to balance the load. Mounting the camera instead creates an unbalanced set up that may topple over. The case is a zippered soft case (LZ1324) that can also be purchased separately. The lens hood (ET-86) is used to reduce lens flare and can protect the front element in certain situations.  Often times, Amazon recommends purchasing the lens case and hood, however they are normally included with the lens.

The Canon EF 70-200mm is such an awesome lens, it almost fails to compare to the Canon EF 75-300mm.  The Canon 100-400mm lens is a well used option for me, but the clarity and sharpness of the 70-200mm IS lens is more refined. The auto-focus is quiet and quick. This lens can be used for portraits, landscape, sports or as a general walk about lens.  The f/2.8L combined with the IS makes this a good option for certain low light situations.  The features add creative versatility. The Canon EF 70-200mm IS lens comes at a price, but it is worth every bit of it. 

PROS: 
Incredible clarity and sharpness 
Quiet and quick auto-focus 
Features add creative versatility 
Dual IS system 

CONS: 
Heavy and bulky (This should be expected with these types of lenses
