This camera is amazing. Out of the 3 digital camera's under $150 I've used, this is by far the best, beating out the Kodak and the SiPix. I originally bought the SiPix, and it was junk. Don't buy the SiPix that's under $150. The Kodak for some reason didn't seem like it took as good pictures as the FinePix, but the software was a little better, being from Kodak. 

This camera can take pictures of resolution up to 2 megapixels, but I don't even use that option because the 1 megapixel pictures are so amazing. It comes with a 16MB removable memory card, so you can take around 49 pics at 1MP, around 24 at 2MP, and it takes short videos for about 30 seconds in mpeg format at a 320 x 160 resolution, or more on a lower setting. The LCD screen can easily be turned on or off to save battery power, and the 2 AA batteries it takes lasts pretty long. It has a nice, sleak design, and the software has no issues with windows XP at least. 

The only cons I could think of are that the only zoom it has is 2X digital zoom, which is pretty much useless, and I never use it, since it's the same thing as zooming in with your picture viewer on your computer. So you can consider it not having any zoom. The software for it works well, but it could be better, options wise. The filenames of the pictures will default to a number depending on its order on the memory card, so if you transfer pics to your computer more than once in a day (since it creates folders based on date), you'll have to rename each pic. But I hardly complain, since the pictures come out so incredibly well. 

I'm so happy with this camera! If you want a camera under $150, this is the one to get. Don't even waste your time with the Kodak, unless you want the one with 3X optical zoom, but that's $200. I use it for general purpose, taking pictures of freinds and such. Once in a while I take a picture of a sunset at 2MP, and that will be photo quality printed on a full page. 1MP creates crisp and clear desktop wallpaper size images, and .3MP will created good smaller images to put on websites. There's no reason to buy anything else, go with the Fuji FinePix A200! 

 
