This lens has only two "faults."  First, it is big and heavy--quality construction often yields a heavy lens.  Second, once the photographer has seen the results that this lens can produce, there is a likelihood that he or she will be unhappy with the other lenses in the camera bag.

Results first: the images are razor sharp with this zoom mounted on my Nikon D70s.  I can get shots that I never could get before because this lens is so crisp that subjects taken at a distance nevertheless can be cropped to produce an acceptable close-up image. Subjects taken at more normal distances are breathtakingly sharp--as if shot with an excellent prime lens. This is a fast lens (F/2.8 throughout its entire zoom range).  Almost more importantly, this lens has the best "Bokeh" that I have ever experienced in a lens.  "Bokeh," to the extent that I understand the concept (it is a Japanese word meaning roughly "unfocused"), is a word describing whether the out-of-focus portion of an image (i.e. a blurred background in a photo in which only the subject is in focus) has a pleasing look to it.  This lens produces wonderful, creamy Bokeh.  The sharpness and Bokeh, combined with the excellent bright color rendition of this lens, makes this one a true classic.

I have occasionally experienced minor ghosting on this lens when shooting into a very bright subject, i.e. the sun reflecting off of the ocean.  This is a normal shortfall of a zoom lens comprised of a multitude of elements, and I have sometimes experienced this.  But such occasions are rare.

The autofocusing action of this lens is very good.  Even birds at very long distances usually produce a quick, snappy autofocus lock on my Nikon D70s.  Very seldom does it "hunt" for an AF lock, and these occasions are likely due to operator error rather than the lens.  This lens also features Vibration Reduction (VR) which enables it to produce acceptable images below what an F/2.8 lens would otherwise be suitable for.  The VR really works, too, although it is by no means a panacea for dim lighting.  

This is one of Nikon's professional lenses, and the quality of construction is excellent.  The critical mount is metal, and the entire lens is built like a tank.  The lens comes with a nice squeeze-style lens cap, and a very good lens hood that can be easily reversed for storage.

The reader can see that I am extremely enamored with this lens.  The reason is that, notwithstanding its bulk and weight, this lens produces the best nature shots that I have ever managed to take, by far.
