This camera is simply amazing!  I started out with a Canon G2, and then a Canon G6, and then a Canon 20D, and now this Canon 1D Mark II N.  I debated and researched for 3 months between the 1DS Mark II, 5D, and 30D.  My decision was primarily narrowed down to the 5D and this 1D Mark II N.  Yes, I wish this camera was a full-frame and also shared the 12.8 MP like the 5D, but you know what?  It practically killed me trying to weigh the pros and cons and finally I made my decision to go with this one and I'm 110% glad that I did.  

For me, this camera is definitely THE ONE to get because the 45 point Focusing, 8.5 fps, and the 1D Pro Body/Interface/Menu/Layout, etc is what really makes this camera worth it and the deciding factor.  Trust me, if you don't know how seriously fast the 8.5 fps really is, you need to go out to your camera store and try it out before you decide.  Because of this 8.5fps alone, I'm actually able to capture a lot of shots that I normally get lucky getting with my 20D.  And with a 5D at 3fps, I just said forget it...No way.  I'm not even a professional taking pictures for a living.  This is just purely a fun hobby for me and stepping up from a 20D to this camera is out of this world.  With the phenomenal auto focusing, additional metering, it's like I'm now playing with a Bentley (with the 1D MK2 N) coming from a Mercedes C230 Hatchback (The cheapest Mercedes that people buy just because it's a Mercedes name and they don't want to spend any more money on a real Mercedes).  This camera and the photos truly almost help me take pictures like a pro.  

Also, I don't shoot action pictures all the time, and I do love portrait photography, and landscapes and printing and blowing up large sized pictures.  But even with the 1.3 crop factor, there is still a HUGE improved difference going from a 1.6 crop and you won't have vignetting problems with some lenses that you'll have on a 5D.  With this 1D MK2 N, you can still take wonderful wedding photography, landscapes, etc.  As much as I'd like to have 12.8MP like the 5D, 8MP is really all that we need these days unless you're going to blow up and print photos that are larger than 8X10's or around there.  Unless you're printing extremely large posters and whatnot, you can pretty much do everything with this camera that the 5D can.  The resolution and MP is definitely enough.  Plus, it's also invaluable to know that you have the 8.5 fps available and ready to use if you need to and you can also tone it down and use a slower fps if you need to.  The extra bonuses with this camera which I look at as a secondary positive, are the weather seals, pro-build high quality construction body, easy to use and navigate menu system, you can see the iso information in the viewfinder as well as the lcd screen at all times, dual memory card capability, you can shoot on 2 memory cards at the same time as one for backup or use 2 separate cards independently, built-in battery grip (you don't have to shell out extra for this), longer battery life than the other cameras, best customization and most options that you can set to your liking, more than the 5D or the 20D or 30D.  I could go on and on but definitely get this camera if you can afford it.  Otherwise, the 5D is also a great choice too if you need to save the money, and all you do is take landscape pictures all day long, or never will have a use for fast action or have a need to capture quick moments, and don't want the fast and most accurate focusing system that's great for ai servo. 
