Hoods offer several benefits to the photographer. Primarily the hood shades the lens from stray light that may result in an unwanted discoloration or hazing of the image, or the appearance of lens flare. Shading your lens helps improve contrast and image quality. A hood is not required to eliminate these problems, as any item used to shade the lens will provide the same protection from stray light. The hood is convenient in that it is built to offer protection while ensuring that it will not inadvertently find its way into your image. 

Photographers often state the protective abilities of a hood as a reason to have one. This hood being a solid petal shaped offers limited protection from keeping moisture and wind blown debris off the from lens element. When in place, the hood can protect the lens from impacting solid objects. Being shallow and petal shaped, this type of protection is also limited. Even if the protection is limited, replacing a damaged hood is usually cheaper than repairing the lens and easier to replace. 

This hood is manufactured for the Canon 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS EF and normally is not included with the lens when sold new.  Amazon often suggests purchasing one with your lens, and is worth considering. 

Since the hood is wider than the lens; it can easily be stored attached in a reverse position. This doesn't add to the length of the lens, but does make it wider by about an inch. An inch may not seem like a lot, but in a tightly packed camera bag, it is huge. This lens itself isn't unusually wide so the extra inch may not be a problem. 

While the protective benefits exist, they are secondary and limited. I find the impact the hood has on my image quality to be the more convincing reason to use a hood.  Considering the impact on image quality and the low cost as compared to my other camera equipment (except for a lens case), purchasing a hood is money well spent.

PROS: 
Improves contrast and image quality 
Reduces lens flare problems 
Offers limited protection to the lens 

CONS: 
Takes up more space in your camera bag to store with the lens
