After a week of testing this camcorder, I found it good enough for daily use.  The HD2 does not come with an SD card, so make sure you buy one before or at the time you get the HD2.  I got a 2GB SD A-DATA and a 4GB SDHC QPI Class6.  Both worked fine.  The 4GB gives me about 1:20h in StandardHD mode, and 55mns in SuperHD mode.  I didn't notice a speed difference between a Class2 and a Class6 SD card using the HD2, I think you should be fine with an 8GB SDHC class2.
My first impression of the camera is how small it is, however it may not fit in a jean pocket.  It turns on very quick, you can start filming within 2secs of startup.  It has a lady voice telling the mode you are using (ie camera mode), not sure if this is useful for others, but not for me.
The video and still pictures are great outdoor.  The video quality is impressive during a bright sunlight.  In a room lighten by a 60W equivalent fluo light, the video quality is grainy/noisy, this has been confirmed by other people as well.  The High Sensitivity feature (to boost the image quality at low light) helps but not enough.  My 7yrs old Sony DIgital8 does a better job at 1lux.  I noticed that video quality is grainy at low light, but 7MP still picture quality is very good for the same lighting.  Compared to my new Canon SD800 at 7MP, it is obvious the Canon Digital Camera wins.  On the video side, I played with several configuration, ISO setting, white balance, resolution, etc... It does helps, but the video is still grainy at low light.  This camcorder has not been designed for low light filming.  
I ran into an issue when transfering the video & Pictures from the HD2 with its cradle to the PC via USB connection.  I got errors transfering the files if you use the craddle (this will freeze the HD2).  I am not sure why, I have to check with Sanyo on this.  If you connect the HD2 directly to the PC (without the cradle), the transfer goes smooth.  So there is an issue with the cradle and USB port.
I am also using Pinnacle Studio 10.5 for my video editing.  So far, I have not been able to use it and control my HD2.  You can however copy the files from SD to your PC, and use these files with Pinnacle Studio.
Since I film most of the time outdoor during daytime, this camera does the job fine and video quality is great.  I would still give a 5 stars even with the video issues at low light.
