Having been engaged in 35mm photography for 32 years, I approached digital photography with great reluctance.  I knew there would be an essential learning phase with less than ideal pictures, like my playing with a brownie for a few years as a kid -- this further delayed my plunge.  Finally, an upcoming trip overseas compounded with the knowledge of what airport metal detectors do to film forced the issue.

My choice was cinched by some pictures we acquired from a friend of papal conclave 2006.  We ran them as a screen saver, and I was much impressed by the sharpness, color tonality, and depth of field -- especially in cloudy day pictures of crowds in public squares.  Faces far into the background were discernable.  I asked what was used and it was this camera.  At the camera store I was heartened to see it felt like a mini SLR in the hand, had a nice big viewer and uncomplicated, straightforward controls.

The learning phase in the backyard and around town gave me some doubts.  Lack of no-shake feature is the model's biggest downside; a lot got blurred especially using the zoom feature on moving subjects.  Some of this you learn to shake out using point focus, but you still are going to lose a few  precious moments despite your best efforts.  Nor with the limited equivalent ASA range are you going to be able to get the sort of pics in museums or dark old cathedrals you are used to with a good SLR and high speed film -- but remember, this one is a starter.  This thing is a monster battery eater, too:  always carry 2 fully charged replacement sets with you.  On the plus side, choice of black and white and chrome mode is very nice feature, and the built-in zoom has a very decent range and performance on stationary subjects.  Speed of use may or may not compare well to other digitals, I don't know, but its a whole world superior to my old world.  There is a rather steely patina to even the best color images, I see now after viewing hundreds, but that's a decent trade-off for the general ease of use and clarity.  Incidentally, the lens on this camera gives you a lot more than what you would expect from a 4 megapixel rating.

Back from Europe this week, I have 2000+ jpegs (the keepers) all of very high quality, an achievement I could not have come close to, I am sure, either with old film camera or with most other starter level digitals.  The continuing issue of shake and blur I surmounted by simply multiple shooting a lot (sometimes 5-7 images); you can erase them almost as quickly as you shoot them, and come to see this as a small nuisance in the bigger trade-off.  

I do not plan to spend the rest of my life with this level digital camera, but even after I move up I think I will keep it around for sheer utilty and ease of use in the general every day world.  For the price, this is about as good a deal as one can hope for.
