We purchased this camera as a replacement for our bulky Sony DSC-P52, which stopped working after year or so due to a problem with the lens mechanism. Naturally, only time will tell if this is any different, but in the meantime, here's what you need to know about this baby:

The Good:

1) Size and weight - Fits almost comfortably in any pocket. Much thinner and lighter than any previous digital camera I've owned, thus encourages one to carry it most anywhere. The size is also pretty comfortable for one-hand shooting.

2) Big LCD screen - You didn't need me to tell you this, right? Makes previewing images and taking shots much more satisfying, though sometimes it does not appear very clear, especially if the subject is not static. However, it is bright and rich in color.

3) InfoLithium - This is Sony's name for a battery that tells you how much time it has left - only approximately, of course. If use is consistent, will provide you with a good idea. If you use one function then another then another, it tends to vary much more and is not as useful. 

4) Integrated charger/USB station - A flimsy plastic cradle takes care of charging the on-board battery as well as providing a USB hookup for downloading images and video into the computer. Minimizes wires and removes the need for a separate charger, though the bright white color is far from a match.

The Bad:

1) Focusing problems - The camera cannot focus on objects that are relatively close to it. I am not speaking about macros, but simply the function - or lack thereof - to focus on small, near objects, such as coins, stamps, or text. Quick focus on objects farther away, though.

2) Integrated Battery - I listed the InfoLithium as a positive, but the fact that you cannot just pop-in a couple of AA batteries means you will always need the station or the plug to charge up if you need some juice. I don't know if the battery is universal, but even if it is, it will cost substantially more to purchase a replacement.

3) Incompatible Memory Sticks - I will not complain about Sony's desire to make consumers pay more for its cards than adopting a standard, but this camera uses the MemoryStick Duo, which is about 1/4 or so smaller than the "regular" MemoryStick. This means that the hundreds you may have invested in memory cards for previous Sony digital cameras are pretty useless, as they do not fit into this or any other device using the smaller cards.

4) Ineffective Flash - The flash is tiny, thus does not provide adequate illumination in the dark. Within a few feet is okay, but farther subjects are not touched.

5) 3x Optical Zoom - C'mon, this is 2005! 3x optical zoom is pretty pathetic for such an expensive camera.

6) Slow Write Speed - There is a decent pause between pictures, meaning you not be able to shoot at a rapid rate. You can certainly take pictures in bursts, but it takes even longer to write to the memory stick. Previewing the images is also slow. This is also disappointing, as it's not faster than my older P52.

7) No Tripod Hookup - If you wish to use a tripod, you have to mount the camera on the plastic station, then connect the tripod to the plastic dock. This is far from ideal.

Well, there you have it. The negatives I listed may be insignificant for you, in which case this could be a great value for you. I am certainly happy with it, but I only wish Sony would stop treating its customers like cash cows with changing standards, compatibilities, and dubious long-term quality
