    I purchased this camera as a replacement for Canon Optura 20 which was dropped and when estimate for repair exceeded price of this camera, I decided to move on. After using DCR-HC28 for several weeks, I believe this is a very neat package. Overall, I am very satisfied with this camera. One of the first things that I noticed is that color representation in low light conditions is much more accurate than that of Canon. I grew accustomed to adjusting Optura's white balance indoor in order to get accurate color tones. Now I am finding, that automatic settings work just fine and, in fact, I didn't have a reason to play with presets as of yet. This camera is more of a "point and shoot" type than Canon. It provides you with manual controls, but they are not easily accessible. Still, I have not found a reason to mess with these. Besides, for those, who would claim that manual settings are necessary for advanced/professional type of filming, I would point to the price tag and ask where and when did they last see an advanced/professional camera for under $300? 
    This camera is also about half the size of Canon and combined with low price and weight, produces a package that I can drag with me while going to the beach, bicycling, hiking, etc and not having to worry about ruining expensive piece of electronic gear, as was the case with my Optura which, at the time when I bought it, cost me about 2.5 times of what I paid for Sony.
    So far, I've used this camera in about all of the lighting conditions that I would expect to ever having to consider. I have NO COMPLAINTS about its performance. Picture seems to be sharply focused and color tones are correct. Focus is fast enough to keep up with little kids or to shoot some sports/action. Sound quality of the microphone is quiet acceptable. There seems to be very little noise from drive motor and it is not picked up by the mic so it is not transferred to your recording. All of the essential controls and menus are within easy reach.
    There are few negative points that prevent me from giving this camera 5-star rating. Lack of any kind of accessory shoe or external microphone input is a drawback. It would be nice to have these, as it would increase range of conditions under which one can use it. Still, among my friends, who actually have a camcorder, about 90% don't own an accessory light or external microphone, so if it was possible to lower camera cost by omitting these features, it is not a criminal move on part of Sony. The LCD display could have been a bit larger and it would not hurt if Sony would provide it with more freedom of motion - it only swings out to 90 degree angle and in certain situations it is a limiting factor. 




