Through most of the 1990s, I lived overseas in both Europe and Asia.  Unfortunately, my number of photos from these times are limited to a handful as I hated looking like a "tourist" with my bulky camera!  Nowadays, I no longer have to worry about that because of cameras like this one!  I intially bought this T7 after using a friend's T1 and being impressed with the size of it.  The T7 is obviously considerably smaller, which is even better!  

I bought this camera right as they were coming out and paid well over $400 for it plus a 1GB Memory Stick Pro.  Both are investments that even to this day (over a year later) I am very happy with.  I have taken this camera just about everywhere and wherever I go people love to look at it.  I can say I've probably sold at least a dozen of these to people that fell in love with the size of the camera and the quality of photos it takes.  

As far as size, that is the biggest plus to it's advantage.  It can fit anywhere.  Even with the optional case that you can buy for it, it still easily fits in a trouser or jacket pocket, without even a noticable bulge.  

As far as photo quality goes, as most of the reviews note, the camera is very limited when it comes to night time shots.  I've found that these shots are often hit and miss as far as what you'll get, but for the size of the lens and the size of the flash, what can you expect?  After shooting a few thousand photos with this camera, I know what will be a good and bad night shot, and with the playback feature, you can quickly see the quality of your photo and retake if needed.  Is it perfect? No, but that's super tough in a camera this small.

Some reviews note the difficulty trying to take a photo while holding the camera still.  I've never had issue with this, but I could see how it could be an issue, it's just never one either my wife (the primary user) or I have dealt with.  I would venture that probably the vast majority of buyers of this camera will likewise not have a problem.

I've recorded more than a few .mpg movies with the camera and it surprisingly outperformed some of my bigger (and more expensive) point-and-shoot digital cameras.  I have been very pleased with that.  

Another drawback noted by many reviews is the LCD screen and the chance of breaking it.  I put a plastic screen protector (the thin plastic sheet type held by static) on it as soon as I bought it and haven't had a problem.  I've sat on the camera before (by accident, of course!) and have had it in luggage and the like, but have never had a problem.

The most significant drawback that I've had with the camera is that it can take more photos (esp with the 1GB card) than the battery will last.  Buy a second battery and you'll be more than good, but it's just something to keep in mind.

I would highly recommend this camera for anyone who travels, or anyone who wants a camera to take quick photos.  It can be carried anywhere and for the vast majority of shots, it's all that you need. I can say that we have many photos of our kids (and really good ones, too) that we would never had gotten if my wife didn't regularly carry this camera in her purse and diaper bag! I'm happy enough with it that I'm going to buy a second one for myself (especially now that the prices have dropped so much!) so that my wife can use our first one entirely for her own photography.  I give it five stars and would definately recommend it to others
