I bought this camera as something a bit more capable, but not as expensive as an SLR. With a zoom equivalent to a 300 mm lens on an SLR, I certainly saved myself a heap of money over buying an SLR setup with the same capacities. 

I use this camera mostly in manual. That was my aim in buying it - to get more proficient in using the manual settings. A few times I have switched it to auto, and haven't been all that impressed. The autofocus seems a little unpredictable, but there is a single press manual focus button on the left side, as well as a focusing ring, and these do me very well indeed. I don't think I would recommend this camera to someone who wanted to use it mostly as a point and shoot. 

It loses one star mostly because of its poor macro capability. For really really good closeups it just doesn't come close to my Konica Minolta DImage Z6. 

I was a bit lost without image stabilization at first. This camera compensates for not having this by jacking up the film speed when in auto, and if I want to use it in manual and handhold, of course I have to do the same. Since I use a tripod a lot, this is not too much of an issue for me. I've heard a lot of bad press on the graininess at higher ISO, but I have found them to be at least as good as film if not better. 

The colors are great. I love my range of menu options, though there is nothing too extraordinary about them. This camera has more buttons than some, but once I got used to them, they make my selections so much faster when I am shooting in changing light conditions. 

I like the fact I can use a cable release with this camera. I have used it for quite a bit of low light work, and the fact that I can dial it right down to a twenty second shutter speed or even to B is fantastic.

I've found it pretty hard to find image editing software to work directly with raw images from this camera. 

It's working really well for me as a prosumer camera. However, I still think that if I could go back, I might go for a Panasonic DMC-FZ50 10.1MP instead. Maybe. I would have to check that one out more thorougly first
