I bought this camera to replace my 35 almost a couple years back.  I am an avid nature photographer so most of my work is taken in the outdoors.  After hundreds of pictures and all kinds of weather here's the lowdown...

Pros ... Picture quality is amazing even after zooming the full 10X (I never go into digital zoom because of low quality of pictures, although this camera isn't too bad after complete full optical and digital zoom).  Prints that I've made up to 16X20" (haven't gone larger, but I know I can) are extremely impressive and are as crisp as viewing a 4x6.  It is easy to use and the functions are easy to get to with the use of the joystick.  The stabilization at full 10X zoom is incredible also.  It appears really shaky through the window, but pictures continue to turn out crisp.  Close-ups are clear and reveal amazingly clear details.  The movie feature works better indoors than the regular camera portion (read cons).

Cons ... Indoor shooting is limited because the flash isn't strong enough.  When at a school chorus concert, the pictures turned out fuzzy and unclear.  Award ceremonies, the pictures turned out once again unusable in my standards.  The zoom is fixed when using the movie feature so you need to have the zoom set before beginning a movie.  This camera seems to eat batteries, especially in the winter months.  I am always on the go, and when I go to pull out the camera I find the camera lens cover has fallen off yet again.  It comes off way to easily causing smudges and smears on the lens so I must always have lens cleaner wipes on me.  The viewing window cover has also come off and is lost in the woods somewhere, but that also is minor.

Most of the cons really are all minor things that don't interfere with the amazing quality of the pictures as long as you are properly prepared for those minor issues.  I tried to be as precise about this camera as possible.  All in all, I would highly recommend this camera to the avid photographer.  If you plan on using a camera on mostly indoor activities, just keep in mind for the flash to work good, keep your subjects close.  It's been bumped, jostled, and droped a couple of times and the camera still works like a gem
