I had been waiting 3 years for any manufacturer to market a camera similar in specification to the Canon EOS1. As exploration Health, Safety & Environment advisor, work takes me to middle of the desert or the oceans. The wait was for 35mm film quality, with speed of picture taking (5 frames per second is barely enough to capture dolphins - hence the 8 + fps of the EOS 1 was desired). There was a parallel wait for an Image Stabilised 28-300 zoom lens.

Let's cut the story short. If I want a camera to bring on holiday, it would not be this one - the battery and charger are too heavy and bulky; instead I would choose the EOS20D without hesitation.

But having hundreds of failed 35mm film frames I decided not to wait any longer but to buy the EOS1D Mark II because the 1Ds Mark II is not fast enough at 4 frames a second.

With 35mm cameras, after a few seconds on the shooting, I would have to run back inside to the cabin (of a ship) to change film. If there is large enough memory card in the EOS1DII, there is no need. This camera is built with seals against the environment (and so does the 28-300mm lens). Instead of being scared of running out of film, now it is easy to keep the shutter button pressed while panning (and hoping) the dolphins do their jumps into the air.

With the 28-300mm lens attached, there is no need to change lenses either. Dolphins riding the bow wave of the ship could be captured at 28mm while those further away could be caught with 300mm setting.

It is a disappointment that the battery is not LiOn but the older NiMH. But as with any photo gear requiring a battery it is wise to have a spare, whatever the substance. I just wish Canon package a small travel size charger instead of the standard one which is very bulky. It has connections for two batteries (yet it could only charge one following the other) but most people would be happy using one battery while the other one is being charged. You just try to convince some airport officials to let you on the plane with the above kit, binoculars, laptop, mobile phone, GPS.......ext. hard disk....as hand luggage.

For work, I am committed and therefore bear the weight and troubles of hauling the hardware. But for holidays, I would choose the EOS20D with built-in flash because who would want to lug around 3 kilos all day plus flash gun and possibly a tripod?

The camera gets 4.5 stars but the battery and charger lets it down. Why just 4.5 stars ? One of the beauties I had thought with digital SLR was not having to do anything in processing, just transfer the images to the computer. Wrong. The .jpg straight out of the camera is not sharp enough. Post processing is required. Why ? Why is that necessary when the Canon S60 (which I use for different assignments (with underwater housing)) doesn't need to ? That defeats the point of having a .jpg file at 5.5 Meg when the 1.5 Meg of the S60 looks sharper straight out of the camera ? Still, there is RAW if the standard output is not suficient.

Incidentally, the EOS1DsII also produces 5.5 Meg .jpg and those also require post processing. For those of us who are not interested in working longer than necessary (me) 16.7 Million Pixels would seem a bit wasted.

I am still waiting for the camera which produces sharp .jpg files in-camera without having to post process, and can shoot at 8+ fps with a sensor size equivalent to 35mm film. Meantime I shall have to learn to shoot with RAW files and post process.

Also incidentally, the sensor size of the EOS20D is smaller, which means although itself is lighter than the EOS1D series camera, having to carry around an extrawide lens is not my idea of fun on holiday. The magnification ratio for the EOS1DII is 1.3 whereas the EOS20D is 1.6. This means I could still travel reasonably light (compromise) with the 1DII and 28-135mm IS lens attached. Sure it is possible to use stitching but that is more time spent at the computer and time is precious.

Any regrets ? None what-so-ever. It is state of the technology at the moment. Another benefit of using digital is that, it doesn't matter if you had been shooting ISO 100 all day. come the night if you want to shoot the rig with a moon as backdrop, just change to ISO 1600 without having to bother about "pushing2 the film in developing. It's a beauty when an IS L lens is attached. You'd need IS when there is machinery vibrations and the ship is moving with the swell ! Good job Canon. Now you need to shoe horn in a more capable CPU (to process the images in-camera), fit the 1DsII sensor into this one or this motordrive into the 1DsII and you may persuade me to part with more cash.
