I have to get on the bandwagon here.  This is a superb little camera, definately five stars!  I also have the TZ1, which showed promise, but has  limitations. In my review of the TZ1, I noted it had lots of "noise" and pictures shouldn't be printed much beyond 4x6 inches if they were to be sharp.  I also wanted more manual controls.

The TZ3 fixes and improves almost everything about the TZ1 and adds some new, very useful features.  The noise has been drastically reduced, the lens is better, the sensor is bigger, and the processor is not only faster, but produces better pictures.  The TZ3 adds a very handy "function" button - or I should say function capability - the number of buttons is the same - which gives immediate access to five or so "most used" settings without having to go into the menues - of which there are several.

The TZ3 keeps the Mega Optical Image Stabilization and adds Intelligent ISO, increases the sensitivity without adding noise,(I have not tried the 3200 setting yet.), increases the size of the viewing screen, etc., etc.

The TZ3 is a "well-rounded," and very capable camera.  There is simply no comparison between the TZ1 and the TZ3 as far as the quality of the pictures.  The TZ3 wins hands down.  In my opinion it also beats some big name, higher priced digicams - a couple of which I own - rather handily. 
 
Of course, the big selling point for the TZ3 is still the 10X lens - now with wide angle capability - on a pocket-sized point and shoot camera.  This lens is SHARP, and combined with larger sensor and the new processor yields some excellent results.

While there are no manual controls, per se, the camera seems to do very well without them.  Pictures are sharp, exposures seem nicely done (haven't tried it at night yet, but low light forrest shots were excellent), colors were accurate, appropriately saturated, and vivid (OK.  I like the vivid setting.), good contrast, etc.  There are a variety of AF settings, settable focal points, and focus modes.  There is also exposure compensation, and exposure bracketing available - and they work well!  The live histogram is a welcome bonus.  The TZ3 focuses down to about 2 inches in macro mode - again with excellent, sharp results.  The TZ3 is very well speced out.  

One nice thing that is gone is the lens cap on the TZ1.  It was  really not to inconvenient, but seemed always to be swinging in the wind to add yet another source of camera shake.  The TZ3 lens includes an built in lens cover.  Very welcome.

I currently own five top flight digicams (including this one), and have owned about that many others, I am most impressed with this one - for combined convenience and results.  It is a quantum step forward.

I also have a couple of quite nice, and fairly complete DSLR kits.  They are wonderful, and in a class by themselves, but when I want very nice pictures and the convenience of a pocketable point and shoot with a 10X, wide angle lens, or a back up for the DSLRs, the TZ3 is now my camera of choice. 
