I did a lot of research before buying this camera.  We could have bought a higher quality digital camcorder for less or higher quality MiniDV camcorder for the same price.  What led to our final decision to purchase this camcorder was the fact we could record straight to a 8cm DVD-R, finalize the disc on the camcorder, and play it directly on our DVD player or DVD-ROM player on our computer.  We didn't want to deal with sticking cables and wires into the TV, electrical outlet, and camera to playback footage.  And we also didn't want to deal with the cost and trouble of transferring footage onto DVDs to keep in our video library for the future.

For those of you who like to edit, re-record, create effects, etc., you need to purchase special software separately, but with a DVD-RAM disc, you have the ease and convenience of doing it all from your DVD-ROM on your computer.  You can also download it with the USB cable, but it is nice to be able to just pop it in the DVD drive and get started.  

If you are only interested in playback, DVD-R discs are sufficient; however, you can't erase or record over footage on DVD-Rs, only DVD-RW and DVD-RAM discs.  

The picture quality of the camera is adequate.  It isn't grainy, but smooth and actually very nice in the right lighting, especially outside on a sunny day.  It doesn't have a built-in light, so you have to be aware of the right surroundings and environment for recording.  I would give the picture quality a 3.75 out of 5.  If you want better quality, you will need to buy a more expensive DVD Camcorder.  Considering how far we have come over the years with home video technology, it definitely beats those days images were out of focus and grainy.  You can't compare it to TV and movie camera quality, but I think it is pretty darn good for home videos.  The zoom is good, but of course it takes some time to focus if you zoom in or out too quickly.  The stabilizer is pretty good, but I keep it off for the most part to get better picture quality.  If you plan to move around a lot, use the function, but expect to lose a little quality in the process.  What basically happens when using the stabilizer (with most cameras, I believe) is that the image movements are slightly delayed.  The sound quality is adequate, but if you are recording when it is windy, you will pick up a lot of the wind sounds unless you block the microphone with your hand.

The only problem I have had so far is with the discs.  We bought Panasonic DVD-RW discs and can't get them to play on our computer or in our DVD player.  We ended up purchasing Sony DVD-R discs and they play with no problem.  When I called Panasonic about their DVD-RW discs, they didn't have a good answer.  The representative told me to make sure the DVD-RW discs are compatible with my players.  I told her they may not be compatible with my DVD Player, but it should be with my new computer software.  The representative just repeated herself and eventually said there isn't any difference between Sony and Panasonic discs (interesting).  They make the claim that Panasonic discs work the best in the manual, but now I know better.

Overall, this camcorder is a great value (you can't beat the price for this DVD technology), average to good quality picture and functions, is excellent for the ease and convenience of DVD playback and storage, and is really easy to use.     
