I made the decision to buy this camera based on the many very positive user reviews.  It replaces a six year old 2.1 megapixel camera.  I am not disappointed.  Amazon's price is very good for a 7.1 megapixel camera with a boatload of features.  It is also considerably lighter in weight than the older camera.    

Later I read reviews by experts who give it only mediocre scores for picture quality.  They criticize it for no image stabilization leading to blur (especially at higher power zoom) and "noise" at film speeds over 100 ASA.  I set up a couple of situations in which both problems should have been very apparent.  Then I enlarged smaller portions of the frames to print inexpensive 4 x 6 test photos.  Had I printed the full frame, the print would have been larger than an 8 x 10.  I just do not see the problems the experts criticize.  The colors are rich and vibrant.

I really appreciate the wide range of controls.  The user can choose a from a number of modes fitted to various situations.  These result in a faster shutter speed, or more depth of field, or fill-in flash, etc.  It is not necessary to memorize the tiny icons on the selector dial.  An on-screen prompt tells you what each mode does.  I also like the amount of control in the manual mode.  The user can choose the ASA rating, shutter speed, apeture opening, and electronic flash mode.  The manual tells how to set the camera for special situations, like photographing documents.  When you take the picture, the through the lens screen goes black for part of a second.  You know the picture has been taken, unlike a camera with an optical finder.  

The camera is very intuitive for first time use.  I also read most of the manual on-line while waiting for delivery and handled the camera several times in a local discount store.

When I first installed the software I restarted the computer, but it repeatedly would not recognize the camera.  I switched to another USB cord and it worked fine immediately.  Then it also began to work with the original USB cord.  I had even checked for a loose connection.  Who knows what that was about!

One little thing to keep in mind is this.  If the camera is set on continuous auto focus, you can aim and shoot.  If it is set on one-time auto focus, you must press the shutter halfway down and wait for the green light before shooting, if you want sharp pictures.  I do not know, but expect the difference is battery life.

A 1 GB memory card can store 485 pictures at the 7.1 megapixel resolution
