I'm like most people with a digital camera. I take a bazillion pictures, develop 10% onto paper, and then banish the other 90% to computer storage archives. I mean, I'd love to display a lot more of those pictures from my computer, but who has the wall space or time to organize all of those prints? That's why I decided to get a digital picture frame. I had been looking for quite some time, but was always turned off by the small-ish LCD sizes or poor resolutions. Then I came across this Coby 10" widescreen unit, with the 800x480 pixel display! There were no reviews on Amazon (at the time), but spec-wise it had what I wanted; a larger display and higher resolution.

I took the chance and ordered one and am I glad I did! The display is huge, and the pictures look crisp. Colors are pretty accurate when compared to that of my calibrated LCD computer monitor. The interchangeable frames (it comes with a black one as well as the white one) make it easy to match with your décor. The litte remote is easy to use, but easy to lose as well, so make sure you place it somewhere easy to find. The built-in MP3 player is a nice touch. The speakers aren't that great (it is a picture frame after all), but it's nice to have the frame play music while in slideshow mode. There is a variety of transition effects to choose from. I haven't tried playing videos on it, so I can't comment on that feature.

That being said, there are a few things that prevent me from giving this 5 stars.

1. The adjustable stand is made of cheap feeling plastic. I've seen other frames that have much nicer backs. Yes, I know it's the front you are looking at, but the stand should be sturdier, in my opinion.

2. The angle of the stand, while adjustable, is simply held in place by friction. It actually has one setting that it can click into, but then it is angled too much to view at a normal position.

3. There seems to be a software bug that causes the display to act weird in slideshow mode. Well, to be more precise, if you are in slideshow mode and you choose either the Fade, Mask, or Cross Comb transition effects, then the very top horizontal pixel line starts to show black sections. It looks like dead pixels, but once you exit the slideshow (or use other effects other than then ones I listed) everything is fine. I have recreated this problem, but I don't know if it's just my frame or all of these. No biggie. I now use no transition effects it is perfect.

4. This is not really a complaint about the product but more about Coby's specs. On their website they state the LCD is 800x480. Great! So I ordered the frame and then resized a whole bunch of pictures to that resolution. However, when I got the frame and started using it, I noticed that all of my pictures had black (blank) bars on both the left and right sides of the picture. It turns out that the resolution is actually 860x480 (which I found out after some trial-and-error). It would have been nice to know this ahead of time to save me from having to re-resize my pictures. Plus, sizing pictures to 860x480 is a really weird ratio... kinda like getting 4x7 prints.

I ordered this from Total Electronics (one of the Amazon vendors) and it arrived quickly. When I reported the "dead pixel" problem (which turned out to be a software bug, not a defect, so to speak), they responded to my email quickly and offered to take it back no questions asked. Now that's customer service!

Overall, I am very pleased with this product. In reality, it rates 4.5 stars. I'm the type of person that agonizes over something before finally buying it. With this purchase, that was totally unncessary!
