When the ETX-90PE works, it works very well and makes astronmomy an easy hobby to get into.  Let me elaborate.

First, the best telescope is the one you use most often.  All too frequently people buy big telescopes that are heavy to carry, and that need frequent adjustment.  The little ETX weighs less than 20 lbs all set up (including tripod), and never needs adjustment.  It encourages frequent use.

Second, one of the most challenging aspects of astronomy, especially for the newcomer, is finding objects to look at.  If you are not familiar with the night sky and where things are located, it can get very frustrating spending up to 30 minutes just to find one object to look at!  The ETX's built in computer makes finding objects easy - just select what you want to see from a menu, and the scope will automatically point to it.

The optical quality of the ETX is excellent.  The manufacturer, Meade, does a very good job of turning out optical systems that rank with the best.  Some of the most rewarding objects - the Moon, Jupiter, Saturn, and the Orion Nebula look wonderful through this telescope.

One final positive to mention is the ease of setup.  The PE models are the easiest of all telescope to get up and running.  Just turn on the power, press one key on the hand held computer controller, and in a few moments the telescope will start aligning itself so that it will automtically find objects for you.  You don't need to worry about where north is, or what the current date, time, and location are.

Now some cautions.  First, the ETX-90 is a small telescope, and will not show as much as a larger one.  That is the trade-off with getting a portable instrument.  There are larger ETX models that are almost as portable, so these might be a consideration.  Also, understand that there will be a learning curve when using the built in computer.  It's not hard, but you need to have some patience while you learn the procedure.  Finally, be prepared for some quality control issues.  As good as the optics are, some ETX's have some mechanical problems that require a return to the factory for warranty repair.  My own ETX-90PE had to go back to the factory twice.  But once all the problems were fixed, it was well worth it!  On this note, you can purchase an extended warranty from the manufacturer at a reasonable price, and I would recommend doing so
