This is a very good camera for the price range. I have always had good luck with Sony products, unlike some of the reviewers here. The resolution of the viewer window and the image quality itself is more than what I would expect from a camera in this price range.... it's pretty decent. For what most people use DV cams for, this is camera doesn't suck at all.
I like how tiny it is. It doesn't go much past the palm of my hand when I'm holding it. Also it was very easy to figure out just by exploring the menu on the touch pad. Color graphics & icons on the menus add a nice touch. A beginner could start filming very soon after opening the box, I think. The camera feels sturdy in my hand, I mean I don't feel like the viewer window is going to break off when it's open or that I could easily break the buttons with normal use. 

As others have mentioned, you have to buy a 4 to 6 firewire if you have a mac because the iLink cable that comes with it is a S-video input for TVs. Also the battery that comes with it is the 30 minute battery but I would have bought an extra one anyway because you never want to wait around while your only battery is charging. The software CD is a do-it-yourself install, at least for Mac. It might not be for PC. I'm used to being guided through the installation process... (since at least the early 90's!) but I had to drag the folder to my hard drive my darn self.  A minor thing but I would have expected more from a major company like Sony.
But the reason I give it a 4 star rating instead of 5 is because the firewire goes into the base, not the camera so you cannot have the camera on a tripod while it's connected to your machine. I realize this will not be a big problem for very many people but since I do stop-motion animation and use frame grabbing software, I need to have it connected to firewire and on a tripod in while I'm working. I almost returned the camera when I discovered this but instead I hot glued velcro to the bottom of the base and to my tripod adaptor so I could have the firewire plugged in and attached to the tripod....kinda ghetto. I figure it was worth it though since I got such a good camera for the price (I paid $299 on sale for it.)
If you're looking for a decent but cheap camera I would recommend either this one or the hc42 if you want to shoot in widescreen.
