When digital cameras first came out, I, like many people swore I'd always be loyal to film. Digital could never take the place of film. I'm not convinced that it has replaced film completely. There's still something I love about putting a roll of film in the camera, shooting away, sending the film to be processed, and seeing the results. I also know it's a bit expensive. I know that the argument about quality has always been paramount in the discussion, but digital cameras are improving in this regard, and most manufacturers are assuring users that while the technology will always be improving, we are at a point where a good investment can be made in a digital SLR and it will not be outdated as soon as the buyer purchases the camera. So I figured now is the time to get a digital SLR. 

I have been a loyal Nikon user for nearly ten years, and have owned the Nikon N60, N70, and N80. My first love was, and still is the N70 (I've been told by the person who sold me the camera he thought I was the only person who loved the N70).  I purchased the N80 only after my N70 cost too much to repair, but I've enjoyed the way my various Nikon cameras have handled all sorts of situations and the fact that they can be as simple to use as a point and shoot if I don't have the time to use specific controls, but it also has options for more creative and artistic purposes. My Nikon cameras have allowed me to capture family moments with ease and majestic landscapes, wildlife shots and all sorts of other things I can't resist to capture forever.

I decided to purchase the D70 since it was close to what I've already experienced with Nikon. In many ways it works in a similar way to the N70 and 80, except it's a digital rather than film version. Like the film versions of the midrange Nikon SLR's, it has a dial that allows an automatic setting,  portrait, landscape, sports, close-up, nightscape, and night portrait modes, the ability to select aperture, shutter speed or manual controls. The camera has auto and manual focus abilities. Photos can be as easy or technical as the photographer desires. The controls are easy to use, though it takes practice to be comfortable. On a personal level, the camera has passed the Halloween test, niece's birthday test, and fall foliage in New England test and favorite scenic spots test. The only real difficulty I've had with the camera is trying to capture stained glass windows in a dark setting. Auto focus has not worked at all and I'm not thrilled with the manual focus of these shots, but at this point I'm sure it's the photographer and not the camera.

I do have one suggestion for anyone who purchases this camera. The manual is very confusing. It uses all sorts of symbols and can be more of a distraction than anything else. I've had luck with the "Magic Lantern Guides" with my other cameras, but have not as of yet used it for this camera. I did purchase the NIKON D70 FIELD GUIDE (David Busch, Wiley Publishing) which has been helpful. It can be a quick reference for anyone already familiar with Nikon and photography in general but it also provides and introduction for the novice to photography.   
