I bought this for my wife so she could pull out the camera, turn it on, and take a nice photo.  Flash works well, unlike some reviews I've read.  Battery life appears to be fine also.  This is a small, light camera, measuring 3 1/2" wide, 2 1/4 " tall, and 3/4" deep when turned off. Not exactly a credit card, but likely as close to one as you're gonna get.    Camera opens up instantly, takes a nice photo whether with or without flash, battery life appears OK, and controls are easy to use--either in figuring them out or using your fingers on them.  Nice big screen 2 1/4 by 1 1/2, so you can easily see what's going on--a nice plus.  This camera also has a nice "reminder" listing on the right of the display, so you can see flash setting (on, off, etc.), ISO setting for those of you that use that, and VERY NICE way to access the other controls shown for the auto focus, self-timer, antishake, ISO sensitivity, white background (am I losing you yet?), and so on.  One point to remember is that this listing is arranged from most-likely-to-use to least-likely, so the user interface has been a strong consideration in the design of this camera.  

I've gotten some nice pictures with this, with and without flash.  A nice pick.  

Why not 5 stars?  cuz I've also bought a more expensive digital camera that gives me more choices, although for the price this camera is fine and it'd be one I'd buy again, but it isn't the equal of dig cams with 6x optical zooms, separate ISO settings, and all those other techie things that, frankly, aren't that important to a lot of users but which do need to be considered in a rating.

Do buy a carrying case, as I have done, so the camera doesn't get scratched or lost cuz it'z so small. I don't have any "special fear" about this but it's also easy to buy a small carrying case to stash this into, so why not do it?  

As in all my reviews, I have no financial interest one way or the other in what I review.  

Also, don't forget you are likely to want a bigger memory card to store pix, and maybe a second battery to swap out when needed.  Consider these additional costs, but also consider these additional costs apply to any camera you buy. 
