After reading the reviews here and at [...] on this baby, I was a little cocerned about its low-light and indoor performance.  Let me be the first to say that my fears were largely unfounded.

Yes, if you film in very low light, it will darken many colors.  But we're talking 60 lux, which is the roughly equivalent to the light put off from the candles of a birthday cake.  Just keep the lights on when your kid blows out the candles, and viola!  Seriously, I have had absolutely no problems with it filming too dark indoors, outdoors, or even when I film local bands playing in dark bars.

The reason I wanted to try this camera was because it is the only flash-based camera that is receiving even mildly positive reviews.  I do not want a tape mechanism that will break, nor a fragile hard drive that cannot be used in many film-worthy conditions (think snow skiing, as the drive mechanism will freeze up on you in very cold weather).  

As I said, I was skeptical when I purchased it, but no more.  The videos are far better than any other camcorder I've owned.  My last was a Canon ZR 50 mini DV, and this camera takes VASTLY superior videos than that one.

The four stars is only because of the mpeg2 format this records to.  I have a mac, so editting requires that I convert to DV with streamclip so that imovie can import the movies.  Mainly, I just don't edit my home videos so that hasn't been a problem.  But if would have been nice for it to be an easier option, and it could have been if they encoded to mpeg4 with h264 and mp3/aac, which appears to be the next standard.  

If that concerns you, or if you want HD, you might wait until the Panasonic SD1 is available because it records in AVHDC which is a form of mpeg4.  Of course, imovie doesn't yet support that either, so you may have to wait until iLife 07 to really use it.  

In parting, I will also mention that the size of this unit is absolutely fabulous.  I no longer dread lugging around even my smallish mini DV camera.  This thing literally fits in my jacket pocket, so I end up filming a lot more than I did with previous cameras.  If you're looking for small, flash-based, and good quality video, get this camera, you'll love it
