I was looking specifically for the magic combination of an all-around video and still camera that was compact and built very solid that I can travel with easily.  I have had this camera since Dec 19th, 2006.

I had very bad luck with my previous camera, a Canon Elura that used MiniDVs.  When it worked, the videos were great, but the cassette mechanism kept falling out of adjustment and failing on trips or gatherings, and I lost many unrecoverable moments!  I had an extended warranty and sent it back 3 times, but they were never able to fix it properly. Perhaps this was an unusual lemon, but I did not want to take the chance again! Of the many media types, I've been told the SD cards are the most durable and almost indestructable.  I liked the idea of no moving parts for recording videos.

In addition, I was tired of having a separate digital and video camera, and the technology has finally arrived to combine the two.

For the non-professional camera person looking to catch candid home and travel shots and videos, I've found this is to be a great little camera.  It is amazingly small, and really will fit in a coat pocket. Extremely solid, it is also a snap to use, yet still provides powerful manual override abilities.  The camera turns on within a few seconds.  The video colors are extremely natural and not oversaturated in any way, and the resolution very fine.  The microphone works well, and of course there is no "tape hiss" since there is no tape.  The still photos are of fair quality. I printed some at 8 x 10 and they looked decent: However, if very-high quality photos are what you are after this is NOT the camera for you. Again, this is definitely for the snap-and-shoot-for-memories crowd, not for people who want to win photography awards. The miniscule pop-up flash is amazingly powerful.

I also looked at the Sanyo which has a competing SD model with a higher still photo resolution ability, but it does not have any motion compensation ability. Given how small these cameras are, it is not possible to hand-hold without jiggling it a lot, so I ruled the Sanyo out.

Okay, now the negatives.  There are quite a few, but for what it does I still found this to be the best camera for my purposes:

(1) The camera does not record well in low-light conditions, I'm sure due to the light required for 3CCD color processing and the small size of the lens (cost of being compact!). Filming indoors requires pretty good light to ensure decent videos.  My christmas tree light pictures were disappointing, and my backlit scenes came out looking like shadow-puppet plays.
(2) The cost of buying additional 4GB cards is high, and I am worried about misplacing them because they are so small.
(3) I experienced wide swings in over- and under-exposed still photos using the flash, although I was (usually) able to balance the brightness and contrast with my photo editor.  I'm sure this is partly due to not being used to the camera yet, but the whole idea is not to have to worry about such things.  Flash fill-in on backlit subjects works amazingly well.
(4) The LCD display on the camera is not synchronized to the same level of brightness and contrast as your TV set or your PC, which you will have to adjust upwards during playback. Thankfully, my Sony TV allows custom adjustments for each input source. Ditto when you are creating DVD's...you will need to increase the brightness and contrast to match what you see when playing back a scene through the camera's own LCD viewer.
(5) There is no still photo zoom playback on the camera (at least I have not found it yet). Frequently, I think a snapped photo comes out okay, only to realize when "zooming" the image on the pc to review the details that it is slightly blurry and I need to retake it.
(6) You will need to use the included software to view the MPEG2 videos, as MPEG2 is not an included driver in the editing tools I've reviewed.  
(7) There was no still photo editing software included, only video software. I supposed Panasonic assumes  everyone has their own photo editing software already, but I didn't.  My Canon photo editing software works for these photos, so I am using that.
(8) Finally, the battery fits inside an enclosed compartment, so you are not able to buy an extended battery pack. Since there is no energy required for running a hard drive, DVD burner or tape, admittedly the batteries seem to last longer before recharging, but I still can't see taking a trip with less than 2-3 packs.  I guess I will be spending extra on more batteries!

Even with these drawbacks, there is no doubt that this is an amazing sleek winner with really no competitor in its class that I intend to use heavily at home and on my travels
