[Below is my recent review of the JVC Everio GZ-MG40, which has a 20GB hard drive rather than 30GB. Becase GZ-MG50 seems to be identical to GZ-MG40 save the hard drive capacity, I thought this review would be useful to those considering to buy GZ-MG50.]


----------------------------------------

I have been using this camcorder for almost two weeks now. And here are my impressions:

PROS:

A) This is a tiny camcorder and I can easily carry it in my pocket everyday.

B) It records directly on a [30GB] harddrive. This is probably the most amazing feature of this camera. It has the following amazing benefits: 
    (1) A huge recording space 
    (2) Random access to recorded videos when browsing 
       (through a thumblist of videos) 
    (3) Super fast transfer onto your computer through USB 2.0. 
    (4) No tapes, no CDs, no DVDs to worry about while recording video.
    (5) Facilitates easy archiving/organizing . For example, all the recorded files on the camera's harddrive have  "creation date"s as a part of their file information. When the camera is connected to your computer, you can sort all files by date and easily separate all recordings by date to different folders by simply selecting and dragging. (This is extra, but if you want to index and be able to search your video files, say with google desktop, simply enter a list of keywords in the file name about the contents of the file.) 
    (6) The harddrive on your camera can double as additional portable storage media- this is unlikely but If you wanted you could even install linux on it and  carry with you an operating system on your camera.

C) Video quality is good for a consumer level video camera. The sound quality recorded through the internal microphone is good: i can hear the lectures I record very clearly and there is no annoying noise generated by the camera.

D) The charger that comes with this camera is very small. So you can carry that around as well and worry less about running out of battery.


CONS:

A) No mic jacks.
B) manual focus and light adjustments are done through menus.
C) The editing software that comes with it is  limited.
D) The battery life is a mere hour(but you can buy a 3 hour battery for 70-80 dollars).


As with all camcorders, the still images shot with this camera are not at the level of quality you can get from a good still camera. It produces reasonable snapshots in well lit situations.

The video files recorded by this camera have a ".MOD" extension in their name. I replace ".MOD" with  ".MPG" and most of my standard video viewing software automatically recognize the files
