I have several different binoculars from small hand held to a large pair of Nikon's I use for wildlife spotting.    I have never had anything that performs nearly as well as these do.  

I am a serious nature and wildlife photographer that has used high end Canon photography equipment for years.   When I saw a Image Stabilized binocular was available with "L" glass, (This is the symbol that Canon uses to identify their finest optics in camera lenses),  I bought them immediately.    

These binoculars are a little bit heavier than a non stabilized pair,  but the weight is easily compensated by the stabilizer.    Once you press the stabilizer button,  the scene will lock, and the effect is amazing.     I tested them by looking at a sign about 100 yards away.   With my normal hand shake I could not read the sign at that distance.    As soon I engaged the stabilizer,  the image locked into place and never once moved.    It performs as well as my camera lenses.  

As far as the optics,  they are, in my opinion second to none in the world.  The image is significantly brighter than any other set I have,  and the calrity and sharpness is incredible.   The night viewing capabilities are incredible. 

Finally, a huge plus is that these binoculars are completely fog and weather sealed.    Change amibient temps, use them in the rain, and the will not allow condensation to get into the unit.  A wonderful feature for those of us that use our equipment in other than nice weather.


Things to be aware of include:

These are relatively large,  which suit a medium to large hand size.   If you have very small hands, your may not like the feel of the unit in your hands. 

Second, the lens caps do not perform well.   They simple do not stay on the unit.     Although for me this is not a serious issue, it is the one area that Canon could have done a much better job.   You can get around this issue by attaching a good uv filter to the lenses.  (You should probably do this anyway to protect the glass)

Finally,  the strap the the carry case comes with is poor.    It is too thin to be comfortably worn for extended use.   I would recommend you find a really comfortable aftermarket camera strap to use with these.   

SUMMARY: 

Outstanding performance and quality.    A little larger fell in your hands than some people may like,  but once you learn to use them, I do not believe any serious birdwatcher or sports fan would ever let them go!    I give the Canon L binoculars a 5 Star rating. 
