I've always held the philosophy you are what you're entertained by. So, those who like Ludacris are definitely telling on themselves about their views of life and women. And speaking of women...Ludacris never met one who wasn't a h-o.

Ludacris is the epitome of the sexual hypocrisy that plagues men: you demean and look down on women for being h-oes, yet you hope every woman is a h-o so you'll have no problems getting laid. But then, you're so disgusted with the fact the woman behaves too much like you, so you go and find a "nice girl" because you can respect her and marry her and procreate with her. But then you cheat on her with a "bad girl" because h-oes need h-oes; but then you can't respect the "bad girl" because she's a slut, so you go back to the "good girl." But she's not nasty enough for you, so then...around and around we go. Women are basically being punished for men not being able to make up their minds about what the heck they want from us.

He's OBSESSED with sex and h-oes. It makes you wonder if he has hang-ups about it. Maybe Ludapis saw his mother selling herself in a backalley for a dollar and it scarred his outlook on women forever. I guess if she had actually RAISED him and shown him how to respect women-- ALL women--then he probably could have grown up to be a respectable guy instead of the prurient dummy he is. 

What's the music like? Well I'll give him 2 stars for mentioning TLC in What's Your Fantasy. That's it.

Addendum: 7/27-07 Some may wonder why I'm "wasting' my time giving Ludacris negative reviews. Well, first of all, if only people who liked the product were the only ones to review it, everything on Amazon would have 5 stars, which would be an inaccurate sign of its quality. 

Secondly, I don't like Ludacris. I would give Ludacris more respect if I felt he gave my gender more respect; but he doesn't. My diatribe above shows what my problem with him is, and I feel that argument is valid. There's no way to critique Ludacris' music without critiquing his hypocrisy regarding women. Why should I like him when he seems to have nothing but contempt for us? I'm biased against him because he's biased against me. So he gets a bad rating out of s-p-i-t-e
