A lot of people are meriting Ja's credibility on all his albums because he has been able to keep his voice on the airwaves since 1998. So he released his sophomore album Rule 3:36 in Sept 2000, that is one of the worst Ja albums I've heard (not the worst, The Last Temptation takes that title). 

Ja tries to be "gangstafied" on this album but fails terribly. Starting with the first single "Me & You" thinking his thug style can attract women. I haven't bought the concept in 2000, and I'm still not buying it six years later. Or how about the flat falling track "F*** You" featuring Vita and 01?

Or as many revewers have pointed out that he tries to boast his singing vocals on this album, which seriously damages his creditablity. How about the song "Put It On Me" before Lil Mo joined song. Sounds wack(er) with out her. Or how about the late Barry White imitation on the song "Extacy" (and thats one of the decent tracks on this album). Oh and remember when "Between Me & You" was highly antacipated that you downloaded the single on Napster? Well do you remember that the origonal/demo that some of you downloaded didn't have Christina Millian singing the hook, but had Ja singing it himself. Thank god that wasn't on the album.  

Now there are some listenable tracks on this album that I would like to point out. "6 Feet" is a standout track, and is possibly the best track on this album and my personal favorite. "Watching Me" is another tight track, as Ja spits with a load of energy within him. "I Cry" and as mentioned earlier "Extacy" are decent at best. Other than that, most of the tracks on this album are skippable.

Overall, a sub medicore Ja Rule album. Most of the 4 and 5 star reviewers are either big time Ja Rule fans or just in love with mainstream overrated rap ("Put It On Me" [Remix]). To me, this album is nothing else but a pop rap, falsafied thug rap album that just doesn't appeal to me. I recommend this to hardcore Ja Rule fans if they don't have this already.

Lyrics: C
Production: C+
Guest Appearances: C-
Musical Vibes: D-

Favorite Tracks: Watching Me, 6 Feet, Die, Extacy

Honorable Mention Track : Chris Black (skit
