On an episode of Seinfield that is probably overexposed enough as it is, the always wily and oh so goofy character of Kramer is playing a game of Risk and exclaims that the "Ukraine is weeeeak".  This causes him to get a thorough scolding and a little bit of trouble.  I think the same basic sentiments work with this New Order release.  It probably wasn't worth the ungodly long eight year wait although it produced the excellent "Rock The Shack" and of course "Crystal", which I'll get back to later.  Unlike Kramer I feel I can make this statement safely as I'm not dealing with a burly, alcohol swigging Ukranian, but New Order fans, which aren't the most intimidating bunch out there.  Keyboardist Gillian Gilbert is not here as she felt taking care of her kids is more important, which it is, maybe.  This album features the guitar of Billy Corgan, the frontman of the seminal 90's group Soundgarden.  Too bad they couldn't get Billy to collaborate five years earlier because at this point he was already full blown crazy, and wasn't writing very good material or really using his guitar, at all.  New Order also made the mistake of having Corgan to backing vocals.  Now a synth is high pitched and shrill enough, but to top that off with a Billy Corgan squealing like a pig cherry is probably not the best choice.  So...Someone Like You is more or less unlistenable.  It has some pretty terrible lyrics about how Bernard doesn't want to wash his car.  Now I can relate, I wouldn't want to wash my car in Britain since it rains all the time and would probably be an altogether futile affair, but this topic doesn't result in the most captivating and well-written material.  New Order occasionnally want to rawk out with guitars on this album, something they don't do very often, just like Van Morrison.  Now I'm not sure if I've heard a Van Morrison song but I've always figured it was a give that they rawk out with guitars.  Case in point of this `not so good of an idea rawking' is Rock The Shack.  Rock The Shack kind of sounds like New Order's take on someone commissioned to write an epic Gilligan's Island rock song, pretty amazing huh?  '60 Miles an Hour', `Primitive Notion', and `Close Range' all suffer from being a little too vanilla and a little too bland.  New Order have patches here where they sound like they might be suffering from the same middle-aged blandness that has crippled other 80's artist like Depeche Mode, The Cure, and Tears For Fears (who've actually always blown).  However, they do succeed fully well on two songs here.  There is `Crystal', which is truly an excellent rock song and show New Order can succeed with a harder guitar edge and is probably one of the two or three best songs of New Order's career from the 90's and beyond.  How this didn't get more airplay than it did is a mystery to me, because it has the alternative rock of today written all over it.  The other is Run Wild which is really a great little slow song, in the vein of `As It Is When It Was.  Probably New Order's only full-fledged ballad it serves as a fitting acoustic, moving ending to an otherwise disappointing album.  Get Ready is good beginning and end, just not end between.  Kind of like that movie Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me
