The Schumann that is presented here is a forgery. Don't get me wrong. I'm not railing against Schumann at all. The question here is what makes Schumann great, and the way that Bernstein presents these symphonies says Schumann is great for the wrong reasons. The real Schumann that lived was a completely different person than what we might assume from listening to this particular presentation of his music. Schumann was not a hopeless romantic. He was one composer in a long line of "classicists" which ended with Brahms, yet at the same time he was an innovator, pushing forward, trying to find new stylistic and technical means of expression. He had plenty of dignity, and he didn't write his music as a desperate plea for the world to like him, which is exactly what it sounds like here. Bernstein trudges through these fine works as if he were dying. Yes, many of these performances are the slowest on record, but this is a BAD thing. These beautiful works lose value immeasurably when they are saturated with thick, waxy, overly romantic textures and phrasing. Tell me, did Schumann ever write: "To be played extremely histrionically and melodramatically, with the greatest possible amount of cheese and theatrics" in his score? No! HE DID NOT. These performances are not more expressive than others in the real sense of the word, and any person in his/her right mind should be able to see this. You may be able to hear the orchestration more clearly than in Karajan's filth, but that's not saying much at all. And for this slight favor Bernstein does for the music, he makes it infinitely worse when he stretches the fabric of these works beyond their limit. The most blatant example is the third movement of the second symphony, taken at half tempo. All semblance of melody and motion is lost. This movement is supposed to be several minutes shorter than the first, and not the longest movement of the symphony, not to mention the longest movement in the entire set. In fact, almost every movement of every symphony could stand to have at least a minute hacked off of its timing. Also, while looking at the scores, you might notice that Bernstein does away with detail work this time around. Carefully laid out phrasing and the dynamic arch are thrown out of the window in favor of grand "romantic" gestures. Observing details in Schumann, ironically, helps to make the music speak more freely and honestly. This isn't honest music-making here, only a self-indulgent conductor once again plastering his image over the face of great art
