Ok, first off, this is the first Corrs release i've listenend to. I'm offering my opinion without knowing anything else they may have done. I've listened to the cd 10 times or so, on random occasions when i need a break from my normal diet of punk and garage rock.

It sounds good. A little TOO good. I agree that it's overproduced, doesn't sound even remotely spontaneous. The studio work is well done, but OVERdone. I'd like to hear something else to see what they REALLY sound like.

The content of the songs is what bothers me. Aside from being sappy, sentimental drivvel (this is pop music, after all - i wasn't expecting anything else), everything sounds like a commercial ditty or a part of a movie soundtrack. Mmm-hmm.

Track 1 - I see a not-so overweight soccermom smiling on a treadmill at Curves(TM), then hopping in the Ford Expedition(TM), and cheering on the kids at their soccer game with a SunnyD(TM) in each hand.

Track 2 - Helicopter pans out as mid-20's girl drives curvy mountain road in VW Cabrio(TM)(R) with top down, thinking about handsome lover... "LMN"(R) watermark in lower-right corner of screen...

Track 3 - Sad animals. Images of puppys in cages.

Track 4 - Actually, I like this one. Mellow, laid back.

Track 5 - Ugh.

Track 6 - This one is the MOST clever! I see the band members - 3 girls, 1 guy - on one side of a table under a hanging lamp in an otherwise black room, while 3 gentlemen in suits open a breifcase full of money, push it towards them and say, "As you're aware, the radio has lost it's credibility. The kids are figuring out that there are other bands out there, beside what we pump across the airwaves at them. We need to entice them back. If you want a single, and this pile of cash says you do, then you'll do what you can to save this dying medium. Hell, you work in the word "radio" and we'll double what we're giving you." Come on, the song even SOUNDS like a PSA for the International Radio Marketing Council...

Track 7 - Sounds like a Pepsi commercial.

Track 8 - Ugh. Wait, wasn't this Track 5?

Track 9 - Sappy, but ok. Sounds like they actually put effort into the lyrics. Thumbs up.

Track 10 - Not remotely original, but alright.

Track 11 - Interesting sound. Good beat. Correct me if i'm worng, but was that a semi-Pagan reference there? That would be a bold move, for which i'd applaud them, if in fact it is. Not that i'm Pagan or anything, but hey, its a religiously positive, non-Christian reference that doesn't involve Marilyn Manson, and that takes guts. Especially for radio-loving girls bands.

Track 12 - Laid back. Almost has a jazzy, lounge feel.

Track 13 - Produced by former Ace of Base member? Bubbly, upbeat, not too bad.

Track 14 - Written and produced by Avril Lavigne...

Track 15 - WOW! A RELATIVELY CELTIC-SOUNDING SONG FROM A RELATIVELY CELTIC BAND!! And instrumental, too - big thumbs up! In fact, maybe that's the key.

Whatever. Long-winded, i know, but fair. This album didn't turn me off to the Corrs completely, but i don't have very high hopes now.

Flame away, kiddies.
