Clipped, petite and looking more like a leather bar Anne Murray, Crow drags out the hits and the `friends' for this all-star live bash. Half the album is standard issue and straight ahead stage sweat with the morning beer-buzz afficiando going it alone without a little help from her friends (All I Wanna Do, Everyday Is a Winding Road, A Change Would Do You Good, Leaving Las Vegas). With only slight variations on these overplayed originals (a sychopantic crowd and some tinkering with the rhythms) Crow's solo chores rarely rate more than a grudging ho-hum. The rest of the album is a parade of snap-on tools (Dixie Chicks, Stevie Nicks, Eric Clapton, Sarah McLachlan, Chrissie Hynde) who easily steal the spotlight from their downhome hash-slinging waitress/host. Reduced to the role of supporting guitarist, Crow butters the toast from the sidelines as femme contemporaries like Nicks (who unravels admirably on Gold Dust Woman), Hynde and McLachlan flounder about the mike in a haphazard hit (Hynde's If It Makes You Happy)-and-miss (McLachlan's The Difficult Kind) headbutt at Crow's hits. But it isn't until Clapton's suspendered, cigar-chomping husk is rolled out to update Cream's White Room that the sour stench of monstrous micalculation reaches it's devastating climax. Fresh from watering the daisies and still in his jammies, Clapton's return to the electric psychedelics of his Paleolithic past  is a fumbling bumbling fiasco unleashed with the grace and finesse of a diarrhetic Brontosaurus. It's horrifying to think that this is what Cream would have sounded like if they hadn't broken up. Thank God for egos. It's almost a relief to hear Richards mindlessly croak his way through the old Stones Exile-era toss-off Happy, as if a cadaverous ex-junkie with the durability of a cockroach and nine lives would be anything but. Besides, Richards provides wonderful comic relief and criticizing his artistic capacity is as futile as pointing out the flaws in the bandages on an Egyptian mummy. The wrapper finds the entire gang, from Spanky Nicks to Buckwheat Clapton, joining hands for a bizarre entreaty with a kindergarten  rendition of Dylan's Tombstone Blues - a fitting finale if there ever was one
