A lot of people are saying that this album is better than their 1st one. That's not saying much because their 1st album was terrible. There was only one direction they could go -- up. It's hard to imagine them doing worse than their first LP. I said this about the Young, Fly, & Flashy album, and the same applies here, so I'll say it again: When the hottest line on your entire album comes from Bow Wow, your album is in serious trouble. But let me balance that statement though. This isn't exactly one of those album you buy when you want lyrical gymnastics. This is simple, bass heavy, crunk music. It's effective in it's purpose, but it's totally generic (the recipe for most party songs). And some of these songs are just flat out horrible. "Stop Callin' Me" isn't only horrible, but it isn't about anything if you're paying attention to the wack lyrics DFB put on it (and whoever wrote the hook should be slapped). And who's idea was it to let Dame Dash (yeah, THAT Dame Dash) scream all over a song (Bricks 4 The High)? I want to know who the guy was that said "yeah, that's a good idea". Dame is doing what he does best, so he's not at fault.....I blame the idiot that put him on the song. "Suckas Come And Try Me" is probably the worst song to come out of the south since Drama dropped his album. And if you ask me, the "White Tee" remix was a step backward from the original. It would help if they could talk about something other than "haters", postin' up on the block (I swear they say that on the album at least 100 times), rims, jewelry, and weed. But expecting them to change up their sound would be silly on my part I guess. Besides, if people buy this, why should they change? That's another story though. In short, the album fails to seperate DFB from the pack. The beats are generic and the rhymes are terrible ("I'll make you 1 2 step like Ciara"? Come on, I could write that in my sleep) And it's hard to tell if there are four rappers or just one because they all sound similar. 

Once you understand the purpose of this album though, then you can find a few decent tracks, but don't go getting your hopes up just yet. There are only 3 or 4 songs worth hearing. "My Music" is listenable and DFBs put down some decent lyrics that are helped out by Bun B's good appearance. The best beats on the album are on "Don't Play With Me" feat. Three Six Mafia and "Freaky As She Wanna Be". "Don't Play With Me" features production from DJ Paul & Juicy J, so you know it's tight. I love Three Six, so that's my favorite song on the album. And "Freaky As She Wanna Be" will be the second single off the album if they're smart. 

On Top Of Our Game is good for what it's supposed to be good for (partying and....well, that's it), but not much else. Jermaine Dupri is trying his best to keep his label relevant, but I don't know if this approach is gonna help him any. This album is better than their debut, but that's not really saying much. This should be pretty obvious, but I'll say it anyway. If you're into lyrics, then this isn't for you. If you want crunk beats to bounce to, then this is right up your alley. It depends on your preference, but this listener has heard better crunk music and recommends passing on this one. 

Standout Tracks: Freaky As She Wanna Be, I Think They Like Me (Remix) feat. JD, Da Brat, & Bow Wow, Don't Play Wit Me feat. Three Six Mafia (My Favorite), and My Music feat. Bun B.
