..of little teenage white girls trying to sound like thirty-year-old black women.  First it was Britney Spears, then it was Christina Aguilera, now it's Joss Stone.  The former at least have something going for them; Britney's first album had catchy beats, and even though Aguilera's style is incredibly trashy, she does have enormous vocal power and range if she would only stop trying so hard.

Try as I might, though, I just don't understand the appeal of Joss Stone.  I didn't buy this album; a friend of mine likes it and I've had to listen to it enough times to want to rip my ears right out of my head.  I don't see what is fresh or original about ripping off Janis Joplin and the generally much more talented black soul singers.  Maybe it's the Rick Astley effect: you don't expect THAT voice coming out of THAT face.  You don't expect a squinty little teenaged blonde to growl and screech like a deranged cat.  But that effect can only take you so far, as Rick Astley himself found out. 

This album is not only an unpleasant listening experience because of the stupid songs ("Dirty Man" basically just repeats "You're a dirty man..." with very minor variations, along with a great deal of unnecessary caterwauling) and the nails-down-a-chalkboard voice of Stone herself - it's a depressing reminder of how low our culture has sunk, when it can't come up with any culture based on its own heritage but slavishly copycats things from another culture that seems more "cool".  Stone, like Aguilera and Spears, tries to sing like an older black woman, a woman with soul - an Aretha Franklin or a Gloria Gaynor.  But Stone et al. sound like little girls clattering around in grown-up shoes.  They haven't been alive long enough to live similar experiences of the women they are trying to imitate.  Their singing rings hollow to me, show-offy and fake.

Stone could rival Aguilera in shameless and unnecessary vocal theatrics, though she has nowhere near Aguilera's sweetness or range.  Her voice might be described as "smoky" by some; to me it sounds gravelly, sandpapery, and as pleasant as scraping your knees on asphalt.

 I don't understand why anyone in the right mind would willingly put themselves through the ordeal of listening to this CD, much less enjoy it.  I guess fake is good enough for some people.  It makes me chuckle, though, to hear people rave about her voice as "authentic".   

If you're looking for soul, try Macy Gray.  She's for real.  Try the hugely talented but woefully ignored Tasmin Archer and Karen Rodriguez.  Those are fresh, authentic voices that will make you realize what a load of bollocks Joss Stone and her ilk truly are.

The only white woman I have ever heard who could sing like she was black was Linda Ronstadt.  Go back and listen to a Ronstadt classic like "Hurts So Bad" and compare it to this modern-day drivel.  Ronstadt sang with real feeling, real knowledge, real pain - worlds apart from this fake plastic imitation of soul that seems to be the rule and not the exception these days.  

I gave this one star because there is no zero-stars option.  Joss Stone is just a musical Chav, an unconvincing shoplifter of another, better culture
