Michael Jackson is one of the most gifted songwriters/singers of our time. You can discuss his person, you can discuss his behaviour, and all the other stuff, but you can't really take that away from him. And that's exactly why this album is so unacceptable, coming from someone like him - when you've reached superstardom and gone beyond it, you don't release a record that's so horribly mixed up and full of second grade tracks that it's bound to be a faliure. At least, you should expect to hear for it. And hear for it he did, cause the critics didn't go lightly on this one. And it's not that bad, actually. I mean, that's what I have my program function in my CD-player for, and my CD-burner.

The album starts on a fair streak - Unbreakable, Heartbreaker and Invincible - are all fair tracks - below average for MJ, sounds like a watered down selection of discarded tracks from Dangerous that were then discarded for HIStory and then discarded for Blood On The Dance Floor, and full of badly placed guest rappers to top it off - but apart from that, if you forget who made this music, these are actually good, funky dance tracks. For Michael Jackson they're passable, but nothing more. *SKIP*

On to track 8 - Speechless - arguably the strongest moment on the record. One of only two tracks that Jackson actually penned himself, and it shows. The amount of emotion in his voice will knock you prone, and actually proves very well what the rest of the album lacks: Joy for the music, and personal emotion. The lyrics are like a poem, and one of the most beautiful love declarations in all their simplicity. Top grade to Jackson for this one track, and if you are into his music, buy the CD cheeply just to get this track.

Track 9 - 2000 Watts - is another of the stronger moments of the record. This one is simply plain fun, and that's another important lesson Jackson should have lurned - to let go of the reigns, and stop caring whether it's hip or street or down with the trend - because it isn't - but this is darn good pop music, and nigh irresistable. *SKIP*

On to track 13 - Cry - penned by R. Kelley. The same R. Kelley who is guilty of writing one of the most horrible songs of all times (I Believe I Can Fly, if you had doubts), but it seems that with Jackson, he can do no wrong. He wrote the endearing You Are Not Alone - major hit in Europe - and this track is possibly even better. Oh, forget about the sappy lyrics, and just enjoy the wonderfull music. This is pop writing in top class, and if Jackson sounds like he takes the Marthyr role a bit too seriously, it's still one of the best tracks on the record.

Track 14 - The Lost Children - is the other song penned by Michael alone, and it's not a bad effort - had it not been for the children choir and sleezy intro, you could probably have ignored the lyrics and enjoyed a nice pop tune. As it is, it falls somewhat flat, and becomes completely choking in the end - but yes, it's a nice tune. Thumps up, mr. Jackson.

Track 15 - Whatever Happens. Ok, that's one weird track. Michael Jackson featuring Santane. Wtf? Well, kudos for doing this, and it actually works, in a sort of absurd way. Not single potential, and not a classic, but it's not embarassing, and as an album filler, it's completely acceptable as a cureosity.


Well, what about the rest of it then? Lead single You Rock My World was never my favorite - the spoken intro is downright embarassing - but the track is not bad. I can accept that on the record. The same is not true for the horrible ballads Break Of Dawn, Heaven Can Wait, Butterflies, You Are My Life and Don't Walk Away. One is worse than the next, and every time I just try to listen to them, I start chocking to the degree of loosing my last meal. Yes, it's that bad, no really, it's horrible. I. Can't. Stand. These. Songs. Period. There are simply no redeeming qualities for me.

And then the two monstrosities - Privacy and Threatened - that just sound like a very - very - bad joke on the man himself. Tabloid Junkie from HIStory actually worked, because it packed a great punch, and well, had not been heart before. Well it had been, it was pretty much the same as Why You Wanna Trip On Me from Dangerous, but still. It worked. Ghosts was a good track of Blood On The Dance Floor. Forget about the movie that was - well, embarassing. But the music was good. These tracks aren't. They sound dated, repetitive, out of place and utterly boring and uninspired. Get over it Jackson, we don't want to hear more about the media nagging you, it's not going to make them go away.


Well, all in all, what do we have ... To take the album from A to Z:

Unbreakable - 6/10 - A fair dance track.
Heartbreaker - 6/10 - same.
Invincible - 6/10 - same.
Break Of Dawn - 0/10 - Horrible R'n'B overproduced. Vomit.
Heaven Can Wait - 0/10 - same.
You Rock My World - 5/10 - well, at least it sounds new.
Butterflies - 0/10 - more vomit.
Speechless - 10/10 - the flower in the dirt. One true MJ song.
2000 Watts - 8/10 - Very enjoyable, and stands out tall compared to the rest.
You Are My Life - 0/10 - even more vomit.
Privacy - 2/10 - Yawn. Repetitive and dated.
Don't Walk Away - 0/10 - end of vomit.
Cry - 9/10 - beautiful showmanship, Kelly + Jackson works - again.
The Lost Children - 6/10 - well, it has potential.
Whatever Happens - 7/10 - interesting, and well, refreshing, if somewhat strange.
Threatened - 2/10 - same as Privacy, and exactly as boring.

This yields and average about 3.6/10, or 2/5 stars, which actually matches my fealings for this album fairly well. Yes, I'm harsh, but from a man as gifted as Jackson, you just expect more. Quality control next time, please, mr. Jackson.

On the bottom line: Outtakes The Way You Love Me and We've Had Enough showed up on the 2004 Ultimate collection and outranked 2/3 of this album by far. Go figure
