Reviewgium - Volume I, issue XVII

Over sixty and still going strong, Neil Young has released a new album, largely politcal and essentially a focused attack on U.S. President George W. Bush. As opposed to his last album which was a more bittersweet, country-tinged effort, Living With War is a pretty much straightforward rock album, mostly electric with a background choir featured on many tracks, as well as an unusually predominant trumpet player on several tracks. Musically, it's nothing spectacular, in fact every song more or less follows the same tired formula, and there are really no diversions from the grunge-like rhythm guitar chords. But the album is obviously intended to have a major focus on the vocals and lyrics. Of course, many people do not like Neil Young's vocals, but there are many well-developed choral passages throughout the album, including a soulful, a capella arrangement of "America the Beautiful," which closes the album. So basically, I feel the vocal performances compensate--though not totally--for the lack of musical diversity. Lyrically, the album is pretty blatant; it could almost be a 60's protest album. But underlying that, is a ray of hope and an urge to change our country for the better.

There are a few decent tracks on the album, even if they are not exactly mind-blowing (not that Neil Young was ever a showboater). "After the Garden" is actually quite a good song as is "Shock and Awe." "Flags of Freedom" is a bit of an upper, so I can probably call that the album highlight, though I'm sure the more politically-minded citizen will enjoy "Let's Impeach the President," an almost humorous overview of Bush's faltering standpoints. The final three songs divert from the general theme of dismay and protest, and offer feelings of hope and introspection.

If you are not a fan of Neil Young, you'll find nothing here that will convert you, so you may just want to leave this on the shelf. If you are "anti-Bush" you might get a buzz off of the lyrical aspect, but that's probably the only thrill you will get. I tend to avoid anything political, so music aside, this album's message does not really appeal to me. It's like, yeah, people hate the President, blah blah blah, we know...give it a rest. For fans of Neil, I wouldn't exactly say "you're not missing anything" by avoiding this album; there is some good stuff on there, but you might want to wait until you see it cheap in the "used" bin at your local CD shop. And for those interested, this is not a Crazy Horse album.
