I've seen and heard Sheryl live when she's not surrounded by rock and roll dinosaurs.  She's great - she's hip, self-assured and kicks butt!  But here, she tells the audience in "Leaving Las Vegas":  "I'm playing Central Park tonight... but I have some friends coming up so can you be patient...Please? For lil' ol' me? Be very patient...." almost begging the audience not to walk out while she's singing solo.  It's almost as if she knows that the audience will have to suffer her solo attempts until the "friends" arrive.  The irony is that Sheryl solo is the best part of the album.   With the others on board, we can't see what Sheryl can do, and those familiar with her know that Sheryl is capable of a lot.   She's overwhelmed by Keith Richard, Stevie Nicks, Eric Clapton, Chrissie Hynde and by including so many rock gods she herself is diminished in importance and stature.  Her songs "It Don't Hurt" and "There Goes the Neighborhood" stand out on the album showing that Sheryl can rock harder and better than any of her "friends." Too bad she didn't include "Am I Getting Through" -- the Part 2 of that was a great rock moment.  Natalie Maines' grating voice (like fingernails on a chalkboard) completely ruin "Strong Enough."  Chrissie sounds like a zombie on "If It Makes You Happy", Sarah McLaughlin is so hopelessly unhip and white-bread in her Lilith-Fair mode that she adds nothing to "A Difficult Kind"...in fact, by the end of the song Sarah seems to disappear from the song as Sheryl belts it to the end.  That's Sheryl's song and should remain so,  Tombstone Blues stands out for its guitar work and the best part of "All I Wanna Do" is the New York audience.  Happy, White Room and Gold Dust Woman are three classic rock standards, so overplayed that anyone who grew up to 70's FM AOR radio has heard them ad nauseaum.  Problem here is that nothing new is added to them, they sound like karaoke versions.  Despite Sheryl's plea for patience, I was bored with the old-timers.They didn't bring Sheryl's career forward, only backwards
