History has a way of making the radical seem conservative, and certainly within the context of Cecil Taylor's music, his debut album, "Jazz Advance" is rather conservative.  Taylor, known for his relentless, dense music, did not emerge fully formed (although even at this early date, his music is far removed from his hard bop contemporaries), but developed over time.  For those of us who enjoy Taylor's music, this record is a historical curiosity, for anyone else, its either going to sound as one permutation further from the early Ornette Coleman idiom (indeed, this music is far closer to Coleman's sound than anything Taylor would be doing in the '60s or later).  My understanding is that when this was first released, it raised quite a stir.  Its a bit difficult to see why.

Taylor is largely melodic-- performing pieces with coherent themes-- his experimentations seem to be in the use of block chords, odd inversions, and in soloing underneath the primary voice at this point.  The record is four originals and four standards, and as one would suspect, Taylor largely breathes on his own compositions.  He is backed by nearly inaudible bassist Buell Neidlinger and drummer Dennis Charles, with soprano sax player Steve Lacy on two tracks.  Neidlinger and Charles are far closer in the hard bop idiom-- their performances swing, Charles in particular is playing way inside hard bop.  This puts them a bit at odds with Taylor, who, while he gives more space than he would on his later work, is still more of a neoclassical improvising pianist than a jazz pianist.  When Lacy plays, Taylor's form of comping doesn't seem fully formed, or Lacy doesn't seem quite prepared to play inside Taylor's environment, and as a result he sounds somewhat detached from the pianist.

The sounds of the future can clearly be heard on several tracks, "Bemsha Swing" features many of Taylor's clustered chords and runs, solo piano take on "You'd Be So Nice to Come Home To" presents the theme in a barely recognizable fashion and is as close to his future organized chaos as he'd get, and while original "Rick Kick Shaw" is far away from where he'd end up, its the first sign of the short of aggression that Taylor would harness in the future.  The music is enjoyable enough, but Taylor would reach such heights that its hard to not listen to this without comparing it to his future works.  The other complaint is the sound-- this issue is from 1991 and is in desparate need of remastering.

In the end, this is an album of historical value.  If you're looking for an introduction to Taylor's music and aren't ready to dive head first into his methods, try "Looking Ahead!", its a far superior album by which point Neidlinger and Charles (who reprise their roles) were far more closely integrated with Taylor's music
