I heard stories about Michelle Branch before trying out her music. And i was electrified to find out that there is still a young, honest and rock-ish female artist out there working her way up.
First off all, i'd like to say i wish to remain objective to all other listeners' opinion, so yup...criticism is welcomed.
I'd like to let people know what kind of a viewer is writing this particular review too.
Basically, my main influences are Bon Jovi, the Goo Goo Dolls and ELO. I'm a 17-year-old male.

Hotel Paper is one big step for michelle. She evidentally matured 
her music between "Spirit Room" and this.
Michelle is pretty much at the state where she can't really make big steps on her own. And that's why i think her authorities are limiting her potentials by pushing her to mainstream. Like the fact that she wrote so many catchy, boring and good-to-sell singles that won't last and are only appealing to listerners on the shallow side.
Although some of her songs made me perfectly convinced that she CAN write decent music.(Tuesday Morning, Drop in the Ocean, Hotel Paper)

Some peeps are saying how Michelle isn't quite a super songwriter nor a guitarist. I agree.
IMO, many of her riffs are boring and unoriginal. Even a noob guitarist like me could tell. But afterall, it's pop, so that's inevitable. But she could do MUCH MUCH better than that.
Her lyrics are ok since she doesn't write no emo nor punk junk, but a lot of complaining and childish relationships. Most are ok though.

What i'm saying is, she most definetly has her own style...but sadly, it's surpressed at an extent where it's irritating and  makes me feel like killing those studio dudes that are spending way too much time laying their hands on Michelle's music.
Nevertheless, just because Michelle is young and writes her own songs and plays the "guitar", doesn't mean you gotta try her music out. But sadly, that's exactly how a lot of people out there got attracted. I believe it's more about how you like the music.

I can't stress the fact that michelle is a musician with great potential and future. But to me, it seems like she's throwing those away for popularity. One good example is, as prolly you've already heard...the posing for a men's magazine named M----. Whatever she was thinking, it really crushed my impressions on michelle...the cute musical lady she used to be....And the terrible decision of forming a pseudo-country rock band with her friend.

Michelle IS talented and hella good compared to the other you-know-who female artists, but let's get real here...she has a long way to go. She most certainly is capable of going far and i really do hope one day i'll be listening to her matured and true music. Afterall, IMO, it's only the matter of time before she surpasses Amanda Marshall on my list.

I really hope michelle could get out of this situation and unchain from this game the studio peeps are playing on her and make every song and every note the way she always wants to.

"Tuesday Morning" 3.5/5
"Hotel Paper" 4/5
The rest are just mediocre
