I first became a fan of the Gorillaz with their excellent 2nd CD, Demon Days. The interesting thing about this band is that their music is so strange and so "out there" that when you first hear one of their CD's...it sounds like complete garbage. But once you listen again and again, you start to like it more and more. Eventually you end up really liking the CD. 

That was the case with Demon Days. After enjoying that CD fully, I thought I should check out the first Gorillaz CD, and  I didn't like it all that much. 

There just seems to be very little actual songs on the CD. Way too much of it sounds like complete filler. There were a couple throwaway songs on Demon Days, but most of the stuff on that CD was great. Here, we've got songs that are just...boring. Nothing happens. I was waiting for the melody or a cool tune to occur in some of these songs, but it never happens. You just listen to 2-D whining into the microphone with dull beats in the background. (Such as on songs like New Genious, Man Research, and Starshine.) Some songs are nothing but beats with no lyrics at all, sometimes sounding just like static noise. Songs like this, such as Double Bass, are cool for a minute or two, but the song drags on for practically 5 minutes. It gets boring. Other songs, like 5/4, M1 A1, and Rock the House are catchy at first, but just don't have staying power. They get old. 5/4 got annoying quickly, M1 A1 and Punk lost their appeal quickly, and Rock the House is another song that would have been better if they cut about 2 minutes out of it. And songs like Latin Simone are just annoying. 

The remixes of 19-2000 and Clint Eastwood that end the CD are also fairly forgettable, although 19-2000's kind of catchy on the first couple listens. 

There are some good songs here, though. Tomorrow Comes Today, Clint Eastwood, Gravity, 19-2000, and Left Hand Suzuki Method are cool songs. Slow Country's kind of cool, too. And Dracula's got an awesome, almost haunting sound to it, and it's really absorbing. Although it too, unfortuantely, loses its tune and turns to repetitive and aimless techno noise about half way through it. This small collection of good songs, though, is surrounded by a huge collection of filler tracks. Much of this CD just isn't really that good.

I don't know...this CD just seemed empty. Very few meaningful tracks, lots of filler, and some really annoying and repetitive songs. Some good songs were stretched to almost 5-minutes long, mostly given filler techno beats that ruin the songs. Clocking in at 72 minutes, (which makes it 22 minutes(!)longer than Demon Days) this CD was loaded with filler and just not enough good stuff. People interested in The Gorillaz should pick up their superior follow-up, Demon Days, instead of this one. If I listened to this debut CD first, I probably wouldn't have ended up liking this band very much. The good news about this is that the Gorillaz have not hit a sophmore slump; their CDs are getting better, not worse. That is a great sign for the future of this awesome band.
