In the classic and disturbing 1972 movie Deliverance, Lewis (Burt Reynolds) gives this ominous warning to Ed (Jon Voigt): "Machines are going to fail. Systems are going to fail. Then... survival."

What, I wonder, will Richard D. James (a.k.a. Aphex Twin, a.k.a. AFX) do when the machines fail?

It's been nearly five years since his underappreciated album drukqs, where we got a tantalizing possible answer to this question: the plaintive, lovely, Satie-esque acoustic keyboard nocturnes intermingled among the abstract, frantic electronic soundscapes throughout its sprawling duration. [Another intriguing solution was proposed on the album Acoustica: Alarm Will Sound performs Aphex Twin...]

Chosen Lords, RDJ's first proper CD release since then, is actually a collection of various tracks from his "Analord series" of overpriced, elaborately packaged 12-inch vinyl singles that he's been cranking out over the last year or so. Those who were put off by the excesses and overt eccentricity of drukqs may hail these cryptically titled, drum-machine laden compositions as a "return to greatness." Indeed, AFX is certainly reviving a more compact, accessible (for him), and straightforward style here, with comparatively regular (though not quite danceable) rhythms and those comforting underlying simple synthesizer melodies.

I have to say, though, that there's a disappointing and somewhat melancholy sense here of a great musical mind spinning its wheels. By returning to such familiar ground he seems to be setting up systems and letting them run their course in an almost cynical way, without any of the maniacal glee that was once part of his singular musical personality on unforgettable releases like Come To Daddy, Windowlicker, The Richard D. James Album, and, yes -- drukqs. Notably lacking are the voices that once regularly appeared in his productions -- true, they were usually rather unsettling, distorted, and manipulated voices, but at least they added some welcome humanity. Also missing are those rare but beautiful moments of repose (ballads?) such as "Flim," "Nannou" and the striking piano interludes on drukqs.

In the end, Chosen Lords, while an undeniably interesting and expertly produced collection of electronic music, is nonetheless a sterile, static, joyless affair. If it inspires any emotion at all, it will probably be pity and sadness as you listen to a possible musical genius coasting along without exploring any new directions for the first time in his otherwise remarkable career.

Yes, I'm afraid the machines have failed Richard D. James, and I sincerely hope he can survive in this cold and remote musical wilderness of his own creation..
