My DJ side:
I actually had to stop the music, open the tray on the CD player then check whether I had the right CD1 down-tempo in, or some other CD that my wife played before as the music was so not what I was expecting, sounding more like Deep Forest than JVM. To my surprise, it was Jimmy's Balance 10. I decided to Keep an open mind and listen to it anyway. I went to sleep after the 4th track. The next day I decided to listen to the second CD (mid tempo). Again I stopped the music, opened the tray on the CD player then checked whether I had the (mid tempo CD) in instead of the down-tempo I was playing the night before. Sure enough, the (mid tempo) was what I had in the player, but did not sound much different than the lullabies I was listening to on CD1. When the mid-tempo was over, I thought to myself "well, this would be very nice for an upcoming relaxing dinner with friends". The next day I had high hopes for the up tempo CD, cause well, as the name implies, it should be where the beats and treats are. But No. Not really. 

The only reason I didn't freak out from listening to the 1st and 2nd CD of Jimmy Van M's Balance release is because for three days I kept telling myself that there is an up tempo CD. I didn't mind CD1&2 out of place pop tracks, I didn't mind the different types of music being played in sequence, or rather, out of sequence. I didn't mind hotel lobby music that reminded me of a hotel I stayed in two years ago in Vienna. All this will be forgivable when I hear the up-tempo, because I was so sure it's going to be awesome. Unfortunately, I was not quite right about my assumptions. Things did not start happening until track 5 (The Reducer 2), I don't really need some 4 tracks on the third CD to get me warmed up. Jimmy warmed me up for 37 tracks before that, in his down + mid-tempo crap. For the most part, this production of the Balance series - especially the first 41 tracks in sequence - churned out some of the most lethargic, way too slow and boring music that could be described, at best, as lullabies for grown ups. As for the last 9 tracks of the up-tempo, it is actually - dare I say - decent enough, but way too late, and even worse, ended prematurely. It should have been re-arranged with tracks in reverse order on every CD to be as follows: (CD3) up-tempo should have been (CD1) renamed (in the car from club to home), (CD2) mid-tempo should have been renamed (at home in the living room) and finally (CD1) down-tempo should have been (CD3) renamed (in your bedroom).  This just makes more sense.  The reason I say this is due to the disproportionate figures of dance tracks given to us (9) to the rest of the sleepy, mellow ones (41). For example, chill out house almost always start with a faster track or two then goes on to be slower gradually. I have never come across a chill CD that opened with 10 fast tracks and ended with 03 slow ones, that's not chill. JVM Balance did exactly that; took forever to ascend to a certain point, then crashed almost immediately. What gives?  

Half star for CD1
Half star for CD2
3 stars for CD3

My human side:
Dance music is not the only type of beautiful music out there, Duh!
Jimmy made that very clear in this release. If you want to listen to a wide range of (not bad!) music, then Balance 10 is for you. Dive in JVM selection of what he thinks makes us human; expressions of the soul that goes beyond our daily necessities to survive. As a matter of fact, we don't even need music (or any type of arts for that matter) to survive at all. Still we listen to it, we crave it and for many people their livelihood depends on it. Music can represent our feelings, desires and wishes, and with JVM Deep Forest like music here (as I mentioned before) I can't help but wonder if he is going through a certain period in his life where spirituality and oneness with the world is a priority. I think it shows.
