I am a BR5-49 aficionado from the early days at Robert's when the band played for tips and usually played requests until 2am with little or no breaks.  Admittedly, I long for those days as much as I long for stirrups in Major League Baseball.  So I'm nostalgic, "IT'S A FREE COUNTRY."  It is also legal for a band to evolve and morph in any which way it feels.  Yet, whenever I read a review in some fishwrap publication that states that a band has "matured," I can do nothing but cringe.  Here's the flowchart:  Band starts out - Band plays hard - Band gets cult following - Band gets reputation - Band strikes out on road - Band gets contract - Band gets a little more pub. - Band gets contract with bigger label - Band gets new management supplied by label - Band gets "coached" in next recording - Band changes faces along the way - Band changes label again - Band gets new direction from new label - Band fights for identity - Band produces new "mature" album - Band gets lost as cult finds new local acts beginning this process.
Gee, I sure hope this isn't how the end of BR5-49 comes about, but enough of the doom and gloom of impending implosion.  This record is OK.  Of course, I realize that any band can't just re-hash the same 'ol stuff on every album, but part of what got these guys so much early attention was the raw exhuberance they displayed both live and on the vinyl.  One part of this was their ability to do cover songs usually better than the originals, and a simple taste of this is what I sorely miss in the last few recordings.  This band live used to be a wild, jittery, moving organism on stage, and although they are still a solid live show (saw them on the last tour at Poor David's Pub in Dallas), something has settled down. Chuck is a great talent, but an early appeal of the band was the vocal volley of Chuck and Gary Bennett. Ok, I'll go cry me a river, but dammit, just go listen to the Big Backyard Beat Show one more time.  Mature?  I just don't want to grow up that bad
