I'm sure glad I did not purchase this cd.  Back in the 1980's I had very little knowledge about O'Bryan Burnnette, but now that I am 22 and appreciate old school music a whole lot more, I know they made several mistakes while releasing this compilation.  "Soul Trains A Comin" (although not a chart hit) was missing.  I would perfer the original version than the 12 inch version used for Soul Train from seasons 13-"Maria" (a lackluster lp track from his latest lp, Surrender) should have been replaced with the beautiful "Together Always" (from his proper sophmore lp, You & I).  The horrible and silly "Drivin' Force" (also from Surrender) should have been out!  "Lovelite", "You & I" and "I'm Freaky" lp versions should have been on there instead of the 45 versions because they stood out very well!!  "Is This For Real," Right From The Start," and "Love Has Found Its Way." were the other great ballads and jams that were non-singles but were gems as well.  The absense of "Soul Trains A Comin'(original)", "Together Always", and full versions of "You & I", "I'm Freaky", and "Lovelite" really knocked off 3 points from Best of O'Bryan cd and should be made into a redo!!  For those that wasted thier money on this, "go on and cry" because Right Stuff Records done ripped y'all off!!  This underated talented artist (good singer, writer, producer, and instrumentalist) was trying to be the next Prince and Michael Jackson but he was considered more like a 1980s version of Carl Thomas (too soulful for the mainstream).  

People must have bought this cd (if do not have original lps no more) because more than half of the tracks are not available on other cds.   

I admit I love all the songs from the cd (except for Maria and Driving Force), but I WILL create a new CD under my productions, SOUL TRAIN ALUMNI SERIES along with my own compilations of Shalamar, Jermaine Stewart, Pebbles, Jody Watley and other Soul Train almumnis.  

1. Soul Trains A Comin' (original although I love the remix; loved the keyboard fanfare on the intro)
2. The Gigolo
3. Still Waters
4. Right From The Start (great track and catchy hooks!!)
5. I'm Freaky (full lp verison, the keyboard solo was missing from the 45 single 4 minute version)
6. You & I (full original lp version.  Loved the closing)
7. Together Always (O showed his true feelings on this 1983 track)
8. Lovelite (full original lp version - LOVELITE BABY!!)
9. Breakin' Together (good effort and loved the video!!)
10. Go On & Cry (good ballad)
11. Lady I Love You (what ever happened to lovin' your woman and tellin' her how you feel.  This was his best ballad ever and this  should school young catz like Bobby Valentino and R Kelly on real love.)
12. You're Always On My Mind (I'm glad they included this lp track from 1984's Be My Lover on the compilation and would be good for the redo.  Beautiful ballad that shows a woman on how you feel although she's seeing someone else).  
13. Tenderoni (45 single, I never actually heard of the full lp track before but it was a good pre-new jack single)
14. Is This For Real (great!!!)
15. You Have Got To Come To Me (beautiful new jack ballad that should have made the charts)

This here is the real Best of O'Bryan plus more.  Wish I can add more like "I'm In Love Again", "Doin' Alright", "Surrender" "Love Had Found Its Way" and "Shake" but had to pick the best 16 that would fit!! 
                                                         -- Thank You!!
