Having been a casual fan of Stax records for a few years; I decided earlier this year that I should go all out and splurge on this 9-CD box set. Big mistake.

I have many, many complaints about this set; but what it basically boils down to is that this whole set is an absolute mess. It misses many key B-sides such as Otis Redding's "Hard To Handle" and Booker T & The MG's "Tic Tac Toe"; and doesn't even include every a-side the label released, despite the title of the compilation (where are the sides that Hoyt Johnson released for the label?). The linear notes by Steve Greenberg (the man who gave us that phony "Soul Queen" Joss Stone; and the headache-inducing Baha Men) are horrible, mostly focusing on his personal opions of the artists and/or songs rather than the stories behind them. And within the sections for each disc in the booklet; they entries aren't actually arranged in any particular order (least of all the order of the tracks on the CDs, that would make too much sense). And there should've been more photos, too.

Add to this the set's main problem: the music. The fact is that most of the songs on here are really lame. Seriously. "Why did you buy it, then?" I hear you say. Well; the Stax songs I was familiar with (such as "Green Onions"; "B-A-B-Y"; "You Don't Miss Your Water"; "(Sittin' On) The Dock Of The Bay"; "Soul Man"; "Born Under A Bad Sign" etc) are all great songs. "Well, why don't you like this set then" you're thinking. Answer: because the 30-or-so great songs on here are sandwiched between over 200 filler songs over 9 discs.

If you think I'm being harsh on these songs, I'm not; I can appreciate songs like Wendy Rene's "Bar-B-Q" and the Memphis Nomad's "Don't Pass Your Judgement"; but aside from a few good numbers and a few pleasent-but-dull numbers, most of the non-hits on here are pretty bad.

Basically, if you really like a Stax artist then go and buy a best-of for that artist; if your looking for a sampler of Stax's best songs, then go and buy the 4-CD Stax Story; don't bother with this one
