If this had been the first album in the "Hip-Hop Hits" series, it would not be a promising start. There are a few decent tunes on here, but as someone who admired the quality of the earlier Source albums, I must express an intense dislike for "Hip Hop Hits Vol.8". There used to be a time when The Source gathered the biggest AND best tracks from the rap indusrty for their compilations, now Benzino has turned the series into a shameless promotion for his own favorites (How else do you explain Ja Rule being here?). Here is a song-by-song analysis of this disaster:
(1) YoungBloodz feat. Lil Jon  "Damn" C-. This song is perfect example of why people are getting bored with "Sothern Crunk". It's lame and boring, as it shows Lil Jon becoming a one-trick pony. Not a good song to open an album with.       
(2) Wyclef "The Industry" B. Wyclef is very talented,but this song was never a hit. It should be heard for its quality though, even if it only touchs topics breifly. It is clear that Wyclef is above most of his peers in everyway; sorta like 2Pac.  
(3) Chingy "Right Thurr" B+. Not my favorite rap song,its better than average though, it kinda grows on you. He reminds me of Juvenile. It's content is not original, but Chingy makes it his own with a relaxed flow and style. 
(4) Young Gunz "Can't Stop, Won't Stop" C. If this standard work is what Roca-A-Fella has in it's post-Jay-Z future,the label is going to be in real trouble. They're good, but they have to be better than good to stand on their own.  
(5) Westside Connection feat. Nate Dogg "Gangsta Nation" B+. It was nice to see Westside together again. The style and talent cover up for the somewhat standard material. At the bare minimum, the song is stylistic and very enjoyable.    
(6) Ja-Rule "Clap Back" D. This anti-Eminem dis is just border line pathetic and lame. Any Eminem song is a bigger hit and better than Ja Rule's weak new stuff. If Ja Rule wants to return to his position "Pain Is Love" brought him to, he must work much harder.     
(7) Kanye West "Through The Wire" C. Kanye West has enjoyed chart success through alot of hype, but I find this song to be very pedestrian for rap. The lyrics don't define Kanye as an original rapper, and the use Chaka Kahn's "Through The Fire" doesn't make a very appealing beat.   
(8) Gang Starr "Skills" C. The group isn't that good to begin with, and this song has none of the fun that "Militia" had. Gang Starr has a decent, hardcore sound that needs to be refined in order to define themselves.
(9) J-Kwon "Tipsy" B-.This song is fun to listen to, but that still does not make it any better than average. It's not really about anything and gets kinda tiresome towards the end; you may be looking at your watch. He's too overpraised.       
(10) E-40 feat. Clipse "Quarterbackin" C+. The track is enjoyable but was never that popular and is pretty forgetable. E-40 and Clipse just aren't that talented. It almost feels as if it was made strictly for the "Madden Football" video games".
(11) Fabolous feat. Tamia "Into You" A. Just great, hip hop with style and substance. It's so nice to hear a gentler, more positive hip-hop songs; one that doesn't hammer the listener, but brings out emotions lightly. He is one of the best rappers of 2003; with both his album and it's singles.
(12) T.I. "Be Easy" C-. He has been compared to Jay-Z and Nelly; despite the difference that he lacks the talent those artists have. Plain, boring, generic rap from an artist who ofers nothing new to the game; no more needs to be said. One must also wonder why this was chosen over his bigger (not exactly better though) hits "Rubber Band Man" and "Let's Get Away".       
(13) Cassidy feat. R. Kelly "Hotel" B-. A sorta fun track, R. Kelly does as much as possible, but he even he can't make Cassidy sound original. To be honest, this was a huge Top 10 hit though; so it kinda does belong here. 
(14) Ying Yang Twins feat. Lil' Jon & the East Side Boyz "Salt Shaker" B+. Surprisingly, the beat and production make this song rather entertaining. It's much more fun than it has the right to be; given the non-spectacular artists involved.
(15) Scarface "Recognize" C-. Scarface used to be an exceptional rapper, but now he's trying to regain glory that is no longer his. Why listen to this, when you could just buy his older albums?      
(16) The Untouchables featuring Benzino "Relationship With Me & My Gun" C-.Just a standard Benzino track tacked on for shameless self-promotion. I wouldn't mind so much if the songt had actually been worth listening to. Atleast "Bang Ta Dis" on "Vol.5" was a good song. 
Bottom Line: *1/2. Benzino has ruined the once great Source series in the blink of an eye. If you want to hear a great Source album, buy "Hip Hop Hits Vol.4"; a Source album with the BIGGEST AND BEST raps of 2000. A few good tracks are not enough to balance out all the mediocre ones. To put it in short terms: with so many good compilations out there, why spend money on a bad one? I would not buy this album with a gift card.  
