Released by Atlantic five years after it appeared in Australia, presumably to meet high demand for AC/DC's music, this international version of "DIRTY DEEDS DONE DIRT CHEAP" is a farce. Once again, somebody had the rather strange ideas of altering the song sequence, and replacing both "R.I.P. (rock in peace)" and "Jailbreak", two of the strongest numbers in the album's Aussie version, with T.N.T.'s "Rocker" and "Love at first feel", an OK, if not spectacular song. Ah, and "Problem child", already featured in Atlantic's version of "Let there be rock", is also included in here. The same song in two different "official albums". Marvelous!. Oh yeah, and somebody hired HIPGNOSIS in order to re-design the front and back covers. That was a cute detail, but the Aussie version's covers (classic mid 70's cartoonish artwork) are far more appealing.
Who's to blame for this rip off?. Somebody at Atlantic Records?. Some members of AC/DC?. Maybe both?. Who cares anyway?. Once again, now that I've got used to the Aussie album, listening back to this "product" feels worse than a hangover from consuming adulterated, low quality spirits. 
Every enthusiastic record collector knows that both Warner Music and Sony Music are serious labels that took, and still take risks, by signing up cutting edge artists and by respecting their will. So, it seems that, with their approval of this re-issue, the surviving members of AC/DC are the ones to blame for this farce to go on, and on, and on ... If this is so ... well ... guys, we, the fans made you filthy rich. We deserve the "real deal", available worldwide, at a "reasonable price". I only give this "product" a 2 star rating, just because "Love at first feel" remains unreleased in Australia. How unusual!.
A final word about this re-issue: I don't own it. In the words of Pete Townshend, I "won't get fooled again". In order to get bonus material, you must go through an irritatingly cumbersome Internet gimmick.
If Bon Scott (undisputedly the band's most uncompromising member ever), was still alive, I believe things would be different. By the way, if you are interested in the real stuff, please be so kind as to read my review of "DIRTY DEEDS DONE DIRT CHEAP" (Import).
OTHER ITEMS TO BE AVOIDED: The skimpy "retrospective" EP "'74 JAIBREAK", and "BONFIRE", a rather steep box set in which at least 6 songs are repeated twice, in different versions. None of these titles include all the songs left out by the adulteration of AC/DC's first four Aussie albums
