First, here are some general positives about Jaci Velasquez:

- She is a very gifted singer. Her vocal range is top-notch - definitely on par with Mariah Carey and Christina Aguilera.

- She is beautiful. And unlike a previous reviewer, I do not consider the recognition of this attribute to be a sign of shallowness but rather a display of appreciation for feminine beauty. I like beautiful singing voices. I like beautiful women. There's no difference.

- She has great spiritual depth. Her music reflects key spiritual themes such as love, faith and joy.

Now, here's a critique of the CD:

I listened to all the music samples (as you can do as well) and only one song caught my attention - "Lay It Down". The other tracks have too much of a hard rock sound and were too experimental for my taste. But the song "Lay It Down" was different. It sounded more acoustic, more in the style of folk rock - a genre that reflects my personal preference in pop music.

I found the sound clip of "Lay It Down" to be intriguing because it reminded me of a hit song in the 1970's - Eric Carmen's "All By Myself", later covered by Celine Dion in 1996. "All By Myself" is a ballad having a soft, understated introductory verse with an explosive chorus. The sample clip of "Lay It Down" appears to be in the same mold. It has a soft, understated introductory verse; however, it seems to lack an explosive chorus. 

Listen to the sample and hear it for yourself. The introductory verse is closing with the following lyrics:

  "All of my hopes and my dreams and my best laid plans
   Are slowly slipping through my folded hands"

So far, so good. There's only a piano and a violin accompanying Jaci's soft vocals. Next, the song appears to be moving from the verse to the chorus and you hear the following lyrics:

  "So I'm gonna lay it down
   I'm gonna learn to trust You now"

Now here's a problem. I am expecting to hear the beginning of an emotional outburst - an opportunity for a singer with the pipes of Jaci Velasquez to showcase her voice. But it is not forthcoming. Why? 

This intrigued me and I wanted to hear the whole song but I did not want to purchase a CD for only one song. Luckily, I discovered that a compilation CD of Jaci Velasquez's best songs was released recently and it contained "Lay It Down". Great! I bought the CD - "On My Knees: The Best of Jaci Velasquez". 

This is what I discovered after listening to "Lay It Down".

- The first time through the verse and the chorus, the song is definitely understated. We simply have the accompaninment of a piano and a violin with Jaci's soft vocals.

- The second time through the verse and the chorus, a drum beat is introduced and Jaci begins to let some emotion out beginning in the middle of the verse and when the song moves into the chorus a complete emotional outburst occurs. But somewhat to my dismay, this is not the same voice that I am expecting from Jaci Velasquez. Her voice was more raspy and raw (actually, it was sounding more like Demi Moore or Tara Reid, not that that is necessarily bad). Furthermore, she appeared to be struggling.

Is this the same voice that was soaring effortlessly through the stratosphere on songs such as "On My Knees", "Speak For Me", and "Adore"? Is Jaci Velasquez losing her voice?

I don't know but I find it very difficult to imagine that a young woman in her mid-20's is losing her voice. She is entering her prime. Barring a health issue, this just doesn't happen.

"Lay It Down" is actually a pretty good song. In fact, I am almost of the opinion that it may be her best. I certainly find myself listening to this song more than any of her others.

"Lay It Down" has the same message as the Beatles' classic "Let It Be". The words are different but both songs share the same sentiment. Actually, now that I think of it...they do share a couple of words in common...the words "let it be". Here are the closing lyrics:

          "I'm gonna let it be, I'm gonna let it go
           I'm gonna lay it down"

The essential lesson being conveyed is learning to "let go and let God" - a profound spiritual insight. Something that each of us here is learning.

This song is heartfelt and gut-wrenching. And though her voice is struggling through it, the song, nevertheless, works out its magic. 

I gave this CD 2 stars because I think Jaci Velasquez is attempting to redefine her music style and has not succeeded. Interestingly enough, her best sound was her first CD - Un Lugar Celestial (A Heavenly Place). Bring back the spanish/flamenco guitar and develop a more acoustic sound. In my opinion, the acoustic sound is more spiritual. Keep the piano and electric bass guitar but dispense with the hard rock electric guitar and synthesized sound effects. Develop a Latin folk rock sound with an element of jazz. Hire a good saxophonist or a trumpet player. Emphasize ballads. That should do the trick
