The best scene in the movie is the Italian restaurant scene with Janeane Garofalo, using a wry Randy Quaid as her foil when she's not ignoring him.  It's the only scene that made me laugh.

The scene with the playboy dad having three women in his home, and the one preceding it when his girlfriend's excessive dinner fails to impress the little kids, are both weak.  Playboy dad is not interesting, and that character really shouldn't have been one of the three musketeers of this movie.

The other dad, Reiser, is uncomfortable to watch.  His dinner scene with his daughter is good in the sense that it shows how estranged a father can be with his teenage daughter, but that too is uncomfortable to watch.  The later scene, up in the treehouse when his daughter suddenly loves him, is completely unbelievable.  The fact is, that particular girl would not say those things to her dad.  She doesn't love him.  She doesn't need him at all.  She's done with him.

The stupid bit about Randy Quaid being a talk show star after busting into Rob Reiner's talk show is just dumb.  That doesn't happen.  If you want to write a cartoon, get Warner Brothers to draw it for you.  Have the Road Runner in it, or Bugs Bunny.

The film gives us comfort food at the end, with the trite and meaningless advice to love your kids.  The fact is that your kids need love from their father when they are young, but once they hit a certain age, in double digits, you are done.  Daddy just becomes the source of cash from then on.  Kids in their teens and twenties don't want or need anything but money from dad.  Fittingly, I saw this film on Father's Day.

To sum the whole movie up, Janeane Garofalo is funny, Randy Quaid is kind of comfortable to watch although the script gets a little stupid at the tail end, and the other two male leads are just mildly annoying.  The script doesn't say anything worthwhile about the subject it took on.  But it takes a subject on, so at least that's something.  It gives exposure and food for thought on the subject of how a father fits into his family
