  Get off the drugs, guys. Your reviews made me purchase this awful load of tripe. While proficient enough on the instruments and vocals, The Moon falls woefully short just about everywhere else. The songs sound very similar to one another and are all pretty much void of any decent melodies or even a good hook or two. Right when it seems they might be getting somewhere, they break the rhythm and make a feeble attempt to psych it up or out with a sitar, swirling strings or the ever constant and really abused minor key chord changes. There is also a curious lack of any decent choruses, here. I have to believe that that was a conscious effort on the part of The Moon. Bad idea, guys. And while the music is pretty lame, the lyrics are absolutely wretched. Can anyone out there, after listening to this, remember more than ten words from any song on this washed out CD? If you can, it's because they're so lame and uninspiring. The lyrics from The Temptations' "Psychadelic Shack" captures the feeling of the sixties better than anything these blotterheads came up with.

Here's a big hint about the musical contents of this CD. It actually says on the front cover, "Featuring David Marks of The Beach Boys." Huh??? Is that supposed to be a ringing endorsement?

Comparing these guys to Left Banke, The Zombies or The Beatles is pure blasphemy! For those of you fortunate enough to NOT have heard The Moon before, count your lucky stars. If you feel yourself slipping to the dark side (the boneheads giving this 4 or 5 stars) and feel like spending some extra cash, there are other sixties groups more worthy of your money, like the aforementioned bands. 

 I'm probably going to piss some people off with this review, but that's exactly how I felt after giving this CD a listen. Honestly, I immediately thought of George Harrison's less than stellar second rate efforts while listening to this. I love ya George, but you put out more than one clinker of a northern song. If bad Harrison's your thing......well, then stop reading and buy this CD now! For the rest of you, there's a lot of music from somewhat obscure sixties bands coming out on CD right now. Garage or psych, a lot of it is great, but the mine is also getting stipped pretty bare. The Moon is proof positive. It's also pretty easy to see why their recording company called it quits after two albums - and the second album is far superior to the first in both sound and content! In closing, while this album has overwhelming intracasies layered into the music and vocals, the end product is very bland. I read these guys admitted to cutting these songs while under the influence of LSD. It shows!

 I rated this "aural adventure" two stars, instead of one, for two reasons. First, I kept rooting for these guys to come up with a decent song to salvage the album (actually two). They never did, but at least they performed all original songs. It's also worth an added star to see a rerelease from a sixties band that doesn't have a cover of "Hey Joe" on it. If you're still with me (and also a lover of good music or even mediocre fare), avoid this CD like the plague! I'd also like to thank Amazon for putting this clinker on my recommendation lists. You done me wrong
