...but this album should never have been released as the "final" Queen-album. A couple of these songs should instead have been added as bonus tracks to one of those many Best of Queen-releases. "A Winters' Tale" for example. Do I know much about the background for "Made in Heaven", well perhaps not. But I know that this is known to be the last studio release. Sadly it has the sound of elevator-music all over, not that the melodies are bad, it just sounds... almost cheap actually -and most importantly to my ears (at least) this doesn't sound like my Queen. One of the most important bands in the history of music saying good-bye with "Made in heaven"? Was this really Freddie Mercurys' wish? It doesn't make much sence after the fantastic "Innuendo" released in short time before his tragic death containing the haunting ballad "These are the days of our lives". The words and the music... wow! And the music video to this song, have you seen it? To me that was the real good-bye with Freddie, and with Queen. And it has the sound of how I will remember them.

But is "Made in Heaven" really that bad? Yes, and no. "Heaven for everyone" by Roger Taylor made it sound promising, and don't forget; I was exited when I heard about "a final material"-release. But it turned out, as you might have guessed, far from what I had expected. Old songs from B-sides and solo-albums are mainly fillers for this album... I mean honestly? "Too much love..." then quite a resent hit from Brian Mays' solo-album "Back to the light", I remember thinking "What's the point?" And it actually sounds better from his solo-album without the synth dominating the song here. Don't get me wrong now, Freddies' vocal is as good as you'd expect, it's what they've made out it that surprises me. And what makes me wish they hadn't. At least not for an entire album. 

"A winters' tale" is a positive surprise though. Perhaps not Freddies' best song, and not better than "These are the days...". But it's a celebration of the beauty in life. At least it sounds like that to me. Freddie captures a moment of harmony and peace. And beauty. And it sounds like a classic Queen-song! "A beautiful day (intro and reprise)" functions well too. But what tracks 12 and 13 are about I have absolutely no idea..? I wish they would have ended the album with Freddies' last "Yeah!" on the song. I wish...

So all in all; "Innuendo" remains the explosive good-bye with the "real" Queen. At least it does to me.

(Let me add that the cover of "Made in Heaven" is perfect for the title, and somehow amazingly "seals" in its' simplicity the fate of the band with Freddie in the lead. The three band members left (Brian, Roger, John) facing the sunset, and a statue capturing Freddie in a remembarable style on stage. Reminding me of him at Wembley 86. To me this actually expresses something beyond words, and it's impossible not to get a bit of an empty feeling watching it while listening to "Heaven for everyone" or "A winters' tale".)    
