Hate to say it, but this is pretty drab stuff.  That said, I'm hardly about to complain; how could I?  This was obviously written for a film (that I have no interest in seeing), and Mogwai just released 'Mr. Beast', a solid (if unspectacular) album earlier this year.  I kind of see 'Zidane' as a gift, then.  Looking at the whole thing from that perspective, it's impossible to be letdown. 

But then, retaining much emotion out of this composition is downright difficult.  Mogwai, when channeling the right energies, create sublime, beautiful music -- truly as beautiful as any form of modern music, to my ears.  When they're a bit more ambiguous, though, the results tend to float in limbo and lack direction.  'Zindane' seems to possess certain elements of both these characteristics to an extent, but the result is surprisingly dull -- at best, it's pretty; at worst, it's utterly monotonous.  

The ideas are here, too; it's not that 'Zindane' lacks drive or intent.  It is a focused work. Yet,  it's obvious, I think, that the music, contrary to most film scores, desires to refrain from emotional manipulation.  While that's admirable, I find that musically, I'd much rather be manipulated than dazed; this is literally music to listen to whilst on painkillers.  There are a few nice themes and motifs, don't get me wrong, but this is ALL underscore -- Mogwai, in the best way possible, has a great gift at handling melodrama, and here they never appear to be guided by the dramatic light. 

I won't sway anyone from attempting to get 'Zidane', but I wouldn't hand it out to anyone unexposed to Mogwai in some hopes of garnishing their admiration. No, for that, I would naturally lead them to one of their many fine studio albums.  For, Mogwai is a band, after all -- they are not Jerry Goldsmith or Ennio Morricone.  For those unaware, Mogwai performed much of the score for the recently released film 'The Fountain' -- though they did not write any of the actual material, from what I've gathered -- and as a musical experience, the soundtrack release for that album absolutely blows 'Zidane' out of the water.  In my opinion, it even beats out 'Mr. Beast', so impatient fans who need a fresh dose of Mogwai 'oughta check that one out for sure
