Some will mistake me for a Evidence hater, but I'm really not.  I just want the man to put some effort into what he does.  I'm tired of taking just any ol' thing artists throw at us nowadays because the "fans" don't expect very much -- or simply don't know what good is anymore.  Sure, you can relate to what Evidence is saying, but you can put on a dope instrumental CD, sit with a friend or knowledgable hip hop head, have a discussion about any topic, and the resulting feeling will be something like the feeling you get from this album.  I quickly get tired of the "slow flow" -- see: talking -- and I feel like anyone can do it.  I don't shell out money for things I can do myself.  Really, the only difference between him and 50 cent is content.  When I hear someone say "slow flow" my mind translates that into "reduction of standards to make it easier for cats to get on" because this album would have been thrown out the window before the jiggy invasion came.  And lot of these beats, though very dope, are as slow as his flow is.  Couple that with the fact that there are a lot of wack guest appearance from cats like Joe Scudda (I'm sorry, I tried to like him, but dude is simply terrible), Big Pooh (same goes for him), and Madchild and you have an album that can have a drowsying effect on the listener.  The only dope guest shots come from Phonte, Planet Asia, and Slug.  Yeah, I know the fans and jock riders will hate and call names, but I'm going to keep it honest -- fu** real.

When Ev actually puts his back into it, he creates some dope material.  "Down With New York City" is nice piece of work that has Ev gettin' busy over an air tight Jake One track.  "Chase The Clouds Away" is another track where Ev does his thing over a pounding ALC production.  The standout to me had to be "Line of Scrimmage" which features Ev and Atmosphere frontman, Slug, getting nice over another dope ALC creation.  With the likes of Alchemist, Sid Roams, Jake One, DJ Khalil, Babu, and Evidence himself providing dope beats, I'd have to say that the production is definitely the strong point of the LP.

Simply put, I don't recommend playing this CD while operating heavy machinery.  I respect Ev and his whole crew (hell, I love Rakaa), but this album will make you nod off instead of nod to the beat.  I can only call it the way I see it regardless of whether or not the artist is a favorite of mine or not.  Bring on the unhelpful votes if you want, but I can only recommend this to the die hard fans -- who should eat this one up.  Everyone else should download this and test it out first.

Standout Tracks: Letyourselfgo feat. Alchemist & Phonte, A Moment In Time feat. Planet Asia, Line Of Scrimmage feat. Slug (My Favorite), and Down In New York Cit
