Brooks & Dunn, Kenny Chesney, Lonestar, Martina McBride, Montgomery Gentry, Aaron Tippin, Lee Greenwood, Neal McCoy, Kenny Rogers, Randy Travis, Phil Vassar, The Warren Brothers, Dusty Drake, Hank Williams Jr., Alabama, The Charlie Daniels Band, David Ball, and Blackhawk. 

What do these artists have in common? Cutting edge musical geniuses? Gifted songwriters able to speak to a wide range of audiences? Innovators in their genre? 

Err, no. 

Actually what they all have in common is that they all appear on this package, created to commercially exploit the war on terrorism, one which contains songs like Where The Stars And Stripes And The Eagle Fly, This Ain't No Rag, It's A Flag, and Back Where I Come From. In other words, maudlin, xenophobic, cliche filled, black/white dichotomous sentiments, and the lack of any attempt at rational or questioning political analysis, all set to fiddles and pedal steel guitars, and to be marketed and sold at Wal-Mart. I should add that I am not against patriotism, when it is intelligent and well informed; this, however, is dumb, reactionary faux-patriotism. Nothing is more so than the song God Bless the USA. As an American who loves his country, I can say that this song, with its syrupy sound and its naive lyrics, does not speak for me.

I listened to a bit of this schlock on a plane ride a while back just to see how much of it I could take. The answer was - not very much. What little I could take made me want to drink, and heavily. 

Some of these performers, specifically Brooks and Dunn, Randy Travis, Charlie Daniels, and perhaps Kenny Chesney and even (I hate to admit) Toby Keith are actually fairly talented; others, like former lounge singer Lee Greenwood, Alabama, Montgomery Gentry, etc, are 3rd rate musical hacks.

Ultimately, listening to this nonsense, I'm reminded that some of the greats of the genre, like Johnny Cash, Hank Williams, George Jones, and Willie Nelson were neither knee-jerk 
reactionaries nor apologists for a ruling political party. Then again, Dusty Drake, Montgomery Gentry, and Blackhawk are no Johnny Cashes. Just Nashville hacks, soon to be forgotten. 
