I remember really liking this album when it was first released, even though I could tell it was not in the same league as The Real Thing or Angel Dust. Listening to the album now, I realise it is by far the worst FNM album since Mike Patton joined. The whole album feels very rushed, it has a sparse, raw sound, very different to Angel Dust's polish. The music is generally very simple with many tracks sounding like B-sides and lacks the consistent melodiousness and sense of rhythm of their previous two classic albums. 

It was a shame to see guitarist Jim Martin depart. He had an unmistakable style and crunching guitar sound and was an integral part of FNM's style and make up. However, being replaced (for a short time anyway) by Trey Spruance is no bad thing - anyone familiar with his work with Mr Bungle will know he is a genius with a guitar and his work here on King For A Day is excellent, it's just a shame that the material he has to work with is largely uninspired.

How ironic then that on such a disappointing album, FNM produce one of their greatest ever tracks - the title track is pure genius, full of the care and effort, rhythm and melodiousness FNM were famous for. Beginning with a great bass riff and acoustic strum, it is soon joined by a gentle female voice effect and simple minor piano scale and then brilliantly builds into a tour de force of percussion and guitar work before cleverly returning to the gentle acoustic sounds of the intro where it carefully takes 2 and a half minutes to wind down beautifully - this is FNM as you'd expect them. Another track that deserves special mention is Cuckoo or Caca, a great metal piece with excellent percussion and keyboards and crazy vocals. It's scorching and funy and another reminder of the greatness FNM once held in abundance.

It's just a shame that these moments of inspiration are surrounded by so much surprising blandness (Caralho Voador, Take This Bottle, The Last To Know) and 2nd rate metal (Ugly In The Morning, What A day, Get Out). Star A.D. could have been vintage FNM but in the end falls flat, Evidence starts off interestingly enough but soon gets boring and metal tracks like Ricochet, The Gentle Art Of Making enemies and Digging The Grave are simple and sound like what most student bands are writing. However, the album does end on another note of vintage FNM - Just A Man is funny and catchy with Patton having fun doing his Tom Jones impression and the inclusion of a gospel choir at the end is inspired - you find yourself not wanting it to end.

Patton's vocals throughout the album are still amazing but should be accompanying much better material and you can't help but feel he was a little bored here - I think his heart always really lay with the far superior Mr Bungle, where he really shone and where his voice was absolutely perfect for the complex and avant garde material.

I suppose it's not surprising that King For A Day is a largely empty affair, the departure of Jim Martin and the diminished presence of Roddy Bottum at rehearsals meant that FNM's original chemistry and resources were sadly lacking and so were unable to achieve what they once had been able to. It's really an album for Faith No More fans, it's certainly no classic despite some classic material and I feel it was the beginning of the end for FNM, they would improve with their next album, Album Of The Year - but only marginally.
