Here's my theory in regards to how one should rate a remix album: If a song is remixed, then that remix should be better than the original song. Otherwise, what's the point?

With that being said, Nu-Mixx Klazzics is pretty much pointless. This is nothing more than a cash in album. The people at Death Row/Koch know that folks will continue to buy Pac's music as long as you can manage to put a new spin on it (especially the die hards...they'll buy anything associated with the man). Well, the spin they put on this particular album is just plain terrible.

If you have the source material, stick with that. These "remixes" don't make the originals better, they actually make them worse. The beats sound like throw away beats from an old JT Tha Bigga Figga album and some of the lyrics have been altered/changed so that they sound updated (removing Snoop from "2 of Amerikka's Most..." and distorting Pac's vocals when he says his name is just terrible), but these changes are only for the worst. In short, all aspects of this album are sorry. The guests are wack and the beats are generic, hollow, "clubby" beats. Remember y'all, when these albums were dropped back in '96 the beats had more meat to them.

There is one decent track though. "Life Goes On" gets a different look and I'm not so sure that it's all that bad. I find it tolerable, but I could see why why someone wouldn't like it. But this is coming from someone that wasn't all that crazy about the original because I wasn't feeling the beat. If you enjoyed the original, then stick with that. Also, I like that the original version of "Hit 'Em Up" was used here. In this version, 'Pac can be heard giving props to east coast emcees that he was cool with (thus proving that he wasn't anti - east coast, just anti - Bad Boy).

Whoever gave the green light to have this released should be fired. It's a shame that folks are pimping Tupac's music like this. But they'll continue to do it as long as folks continue to buy it. I'm drawing the line here. Shame on you, Suge. Your label isn't relevant anymore, get over it and move on.

Standout Tracks: Don't even waste your time looking for an
