I wrote a review but I guess it was so bad for Ultramagnetic, Amazon booted it. The album is trash. Nothing at all like the 3 studio albums made over a decade ago. But don't take my word for it, sample for yourself.

Ahead of their time? Faith no more. What can I say about this album without my review getting kicked off Amazon again? I've used no profanity or content of explicit nature but this album highly does. 1988's CRITICAL BEATDOWN never, ever gave that kind of deliverance. That's why that's a classic and THE BEST KEPT SECRET is not, by any means (vocally, production, lyrically, concept). Can I get a witness? Please?

DJ MOE LUV is the only producer on the album trying to keep that old Ultramagnetic sound alive here on "Vibrato" and "Mechanism Nice (Born Twice)" the album's 1st single. CED-GEE kills the album verbally and lyrically bragging of 16 bars in almsot every track and being very explicit and obscene (never heard that on CRITICAL BEATDOWN by CED). KOOL KEITH does fine on solo track "Late Nite Rumble" but KOOL KEITH is goin' nowhere with his lyricism and on most of the other songs, HIS delivery is sounding just like CED's towards the end of the album. T.R. LOVE? M.I.A. You see him in photos, you hear silence from him, he doesn't even produce a track. Production by CED, MOE and 2 others and the other 2 sound like KUTMASTA KURT producing (producer for most of KOOL KEITH solo stuff). I do not mean that in a good way. The beats of "Nottz" is bangin', the lyrics by both KEITH and CED should raise eyebrows on what's next to come for THE BEST KEPT SECRET being the B-side to the 1st single "Mechanism Nice (Born Twice)".

Songs like "Ain't It Good 2 U" (2007) and "Party Started" are for gentleman's clubs for the girls to dance to. Now do you see what direction this album is goin'? If you're lookin' for Ultramagnetic to comback with a reunion album with the same spacey super dope production and/or the masterful, brainiac, monkey wrench lyricism as CRITICAL BEATDOWN; FUNK YOUR HEAD UP and THE FOUR HORSEMEN albums gave you over a decade ago, you will not find it here. Maybe in the next 14 years. Right Ultramag
