
I had reviewed the first edition of B'Day and I personally called it "Business day" because Beyoncé could not offer what we could expect from her especially after the highly acclaimed Dangerously in Love. Actually, in my opinion if Ne-Yo had not inserted irreplaceable" in this project, it could have been a bust. I agree Déjà-Vu and Beautiful liar were hits but I give the credit to the casting rather than the script. Had these songs been given to India Arie, God knows what was gonna happen! How can she accept to put out such a poor album? Some said Beyoncé views releasing albums in quick succession as a means of ejecting herself from her contractual obligations to Sony Columbia and team up with Jay-Z to form a new record label... but this cannot justify such an inconsistent and poor album.

Ne-Yo confessed that the R&B genre is suffering from serious malaise. "People just forgot what it was supposed to be, what it was supposed to feel like, the essence of what it is," he says forcefully. "It's a vibe, it's a feeling -- it's supposed to make you feel something, as opposed to, `Let me go eeh-eeh-eeh-eeh-eeh and put a beat behind it and see if people will dance to it.' Come on man. There's more to it than that..." Ring the alarm from B'Day falls in the same category.

I read a reviewer who proclaimed B'Day to be the best he's ever had and this is like saying George Bush is the best president America has ever had... Does this person know The Beatles, Stevie Wonder or Aretha Franklin? I suggest him to go back to the stores and get one of their albums and he will then be able to differentiate between music and marketing. I suggest the same reviewer to get albums called what's going on' (Marvin Gaye), Purple Rain (Prince), The Day (Babyface), or even the recent Let's get lifted (John Legend). 

It is very sad to see artists (especially hip-hop) concentrating on making hits, shooting sexy videos with the major target being going platinum and most of the time I find it better to buy the single and not the entire album since they all are full of fillers. What follows is that after a few months we completely trash their records. 

Africa is the world's second-largest and second most-populous continent with 900 million people. Maybe if the same guys had a purchasing power which exceeds Latino market, Beyoncé would be realising another edition in Swahili which is the most widely spoken language in Africa and she would be arguing she's had a great love for African culture ever since she was a child pretending she's coming back to the roots. Anyway, let's not be fooled by these music industry games, their aim is to make money and this entails ignoring the basic artistic aspects. I agree bootylicious Beyonce is the hottest lady in the music scene at the moment and none has denied her natural talent as a singer but she needs to refine her albums and give us s.th that can reach our soul. 

There are some female artists who are making good music without injecting too much cash in marketing to force sales: Corrine Bailey Rae and Heather Headley
