This cd should not have been released because it adds really nothing to this Jarrett quartet's other three releases.  It's like taking a fat paint brush full of cheap house paint and making a greasy mess of what WAS a very beautiful triptych.  "Belonging," "My Song," and "Nude Ants" are all virtuoso, spiritually empowered performances and should by all means be purchased and enjoyed.  But, I'd go nada on this one if I were you.

I was sitting with my 88-year-old mother listening to the last track and complaining about how lame it was and she said it was "hum-drum."  And she's 88, likes Lawrence Welk and it was past her bedtime.  (It's past "Late Night Willie's" bedtime too, I hate to tell you.) Heck, I've heard high school jazz bands cook twice as hot as this "Keith and the Somnambulists" incarnation.  Garbarek sounds like he's going to give himself a hernia trying to get out the altissimos.  I can't think of one interesting drum riff in the whole 61 minutes plus.  (Neither can Christensen.)  Les Scandinavianes sound like they need about 10 hours sleep and then, maybe, they start thinking about picking up musical instruments.  Jarrett is as wired as ever, but even he can't keep up with some of the tempos and the overall mood is disoriented, forced and cumbersome.  How any reviewer can say that this release captures the quartet's tight integration, displayed amazingly well elsewhere, is beyond me.      

With the exception of "Innocence," none of the compositions are very good, either.  "Oasis" has an interesting, if dire, melody line, but it can't summon the required ambience because of all of the clutter and dog poop around it.  

Unlike the other three releases mentioned above, this one has very little magnetism - the first track is all rambling rose jazz, where none of the musicians are feeding off each other.  I don't enjoy this kind of jazz, so cliched and unintegrated.  It contains that Jarrettian need to rush things and gang jump the tempo with heavy-handed neurosis peddled as jazz fusion. You feel like some nut in a BMW is suddenly sitting 10 inches off your bumper, too demented to use the passing lane. (Yes, I know Keith has mastered his scales and likes to crack knuckles with tempos and, yes, I now have a headache.)  There is an interesting part at the end, however, where Garbarek cuts way back on the throttle and swaggers around in the lower and upper registers of his tenor sax in some nice ways.  But the transition is contrived at best and bears no organic relation to the first part.  

Only "Innocence" benefits from the fact that these guys are probably taking a red eye flight to New York soon.  It is a beautiful lullabye, arguably Jarrett's best composition.  True, the "Nude Ants" version is all you need really, but something happens on this version of the song that is very special.  Jarrett puts in one of his best, if not his best, jazz piano performances.  The composition is perfectly suited to his virtuosity and sensitivities and the somnambulists, who are still pulling a Code 9, can't screw it up even if they want to.  (There is a halo around Keith Jarrett's head I bet you.)  Garbarek (somnambulist #1) plays the melody with a lot of heart, but he screws up the tempo in a very brief, weak improvisation.  The man is tapped, knows it and decides it's time to end the song.  Palle Danielsson (somnambulist #2) misses a lot of notes (doubly bad on double bass) and goes off into an ill-conceived, top-heavy improvisation right at the beginning of the song. Like Garbarek, he knows enough to STOP and retreat, letting Jarrett take over.  I can't remember a dang thing about somnambulist #3 (Christensen).  But Jarrett's effort cannot be touched and he plays like a true wizard.  A week later at the Village Vangard ("Nude Ants"), they'll all be playing at this level.  

If anything, I'd like to see the PM version of "Innocence" included in a compilation of the best concert performances by this quartet rather than a whole release of this mediocre concert.  For the most part here, we get hum-drum mountains, where many of the great riffs from the releases mentioned above are handled like a shaky old butler serving up tea, with people getting burned and tablecloths getting ruined.    

In particular, Garbarek's performance on "Nude Ants" is far superior to this one and maybe the mean streets of Greenwich Village got his "Norwegian up."  Maybe they weren't so sure if they were going to make it back to the hotel alive - New York USED to be like this you know - and, well, it just might be your last gig.  On "Personal Mountains,"  it's all polite "thank yous" and Japanese clapping robotically.  Not a tinkling glass of booze in the whole schmooze.  Not even a bonze meditating for more.  But, that Manfred Eicher, such a card, I tell you.  
   
