Jimi Hendrix was an ideal guitarist to lead a power trio, and he thrived in that format.  He inspired other groups to attempt it, with varying degrees of success.  But the Experience was a unit, able to soar on stage in extended live versions of Hendrix's compositions. Had it not been for the demon of discontent within the trio itself (that curses so many otherwise excellent bands), the Experience might have created several more inspired albums than it did before falling apart.    

The album BAND OF GYPSYS was jarring upon its release to those of us looking for Hendrix to continue to maximize the potential of the Experience.  At the time, loosely associated groups that traded off lengthy lead parts in a more or less generic old-style blues format were common and certainly not original -- much less cutting edge.  

It's true that Jimi does some respectable work on this record against the backdrop of the blues grooves supplied for him, but there's an odd and unwelcome shift in the balance.  Buddy Miles became a kind of intrusion into the world Jimi had fashioned in his previous work.  On a Hendrix album, songs sung by Buddy Miles didn't move the bar; they did not elucidate Jimi's universe.  Buddy's drum work was simply not in the style of Mitch Mitchell, and that was a large step down from the Experience's innovative grooves in songs like "Fire," for example.  Listen to "Fire," and then listen to any cut on "Band of Gypsys."  Listen to Hendrix's wild half-sung, half-wailed vocals on the previous albums, and then listen to Buddy Miles sing "Changes."  

You can't reconcile the two styles, and that would not be quite so bad if it weren't for the obvious fact that Band of Gypsys, under Buddy Miles' unfortunate influence, were not a step backward toward traditional blues rather than another reach into the future already painted by Jimi's previous work in tracks like "Are You Experienced?" and "Third Stone from the Sun."  Jimi's guitar work put him several steps ahead of the blues in terms of making his instrument perform overdriven rock tone poems and distorted rock concertos on his behalf.  

Band of Gypsys turned Jimi backward into a lead player in a blues band, which one might even have mistaken as being headed up by sideman Buddy Miles. That's not what people bought a Hendrix album for.  

It just didn't work very well as a release from what people still considered the Hendrix Experience.  Jimi seemed to have gone off track somehow, and the effect was to make him seem a little less what he had been up to that point.  

No doubt people got smoked up and enjoyed portions of the album that seemed like an intimate studio groove, but the cohesion of the Experience, the clear creative identity of the Hendrix Experience was not there.  You can say it was as simple as the fact that we missed Noel Redding and Mitch Mitchell, and that may be true.  But whatever the line-up, people were not entirely ready for Jimi to share his stage with any other would-be featured players. 
