I am completly shocked at how high the scores for this album are on amazon.  Trust me, I am not someone who claims to be a music expert, but I am a big fan of Jam/Funk and Jazz fusion.  I play bass, I understand music, and Umphrey's is among my favorite bands (others include 311, Widespread Panic, Deep Banana Blackout, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Soulive, Medeski Martin Wood).  In general I am open to all kinds of funky music, and Umphrey's usually puts out.  In my opinion, this band had the talent and unique sound to become the next generation of funk (following the Red Hot Chili Peppers and 311).  With this album I was expecting them to develop their sound from Anchor Drops into an album that could achieve mainstream success like RHCP's Blood Sex Sugar Magic did, while staying true to their unique roots in Jazz, blues, rock and even some metal.  Like I said, they fuse genres like no one else can...THIS album, however, was a complete failure in the areas I have described above.

First off, I can understand how reviewers point to the production quality, and the musical talent displayed throughout the album.  Umphreys Mcgee is insanely talented, and no effort could hide that from the listener.  HOWEVER, to be blunt this album is boring as hell, has no funk or rock in it period, and is frankly somewhat depressing.  IF your expecting wild guitar improv, explosive beats and fun, uplifting music--ignore this album.  If you are a fan of Umphrey's live show and their past albums--ignore this album.  If you tend to be willing to overlook production quality in search of funkier, jazzier guitar rifs and bass experimentation--do not buy this album.  The only way I can summate this album is that its a typical indy type album.  Slow songs without enough music, little variance from song to song, depressing lyrics, and a slow pace.  Some say this is Umphreys showing their full range, I say this is them bottling up their range in a more mainstream package that is not all that enjoyable.

The only reason I wrote this review is that Im amazed by the other reviews on this page.  I wish I had never heard this album, it is a pathetic effort from a band as experimental and fun as Umphreys Mcgee.  They missed a golden opportunity to come out with the next great funk compilation, this album is a step in the wrong direction. I strong advise the listener who likes to be entertained by music, rather than production quality and introspective lyrics, to steer way clear of this album.  This was a massive dissappointment beyond any album release I have ever heard (including By the Way from RHCP, which is an achievement in musical creativity compared to Safety in Numbers)
