I bought this cushion because I had to move from California to New York and expected the drive to be torture on my back. I researched these types of cushions and decided to get this one because it has a lot of motors compared to cheaper units, and because I had recently bought a Mogu pillow and really liked the soft feel of it--this cushion has "Sqush," which has a similar feel.The cushion has a middle portion of Sqush which is concentrated into 3 "lumps"--at your shoulders, lower back, and under the front part of your thighs, near your knees. The lumps are soft and squishy and are covered in a spandex-like material. The rest of the cushion feels like fleece.When I first plugged it in, I was immediately disappointed in the weakness of the wimpy motors. Even at the highest intensity (I never even bother with the lower two), it felt like nothing more that a moderate vibration--definitely not enough to un-knot an aching back. The pre-set programs are fine but I rarely use them. It comes with straps but I had a hard time trying to install it in my car because the instructions were non-existent and it wasn't intuitive at all. I ended up just attaching them to some hardware on the underside of the chair, which worked well.I can't decide if the cushion made the drive any more bearable. The lower back cushioning filled my lumbar region fine but the shoulder padding must be too thick because it pushed my shoulders forward and forced me into a slight hunched position which strained my back and made it hurt. The thigh cushioning made it slightly difficult to slide into the seat because it effectively raises the level of the seat (my car doesn't have fancy seat controls) and I had to wedge myself into the seat. The massaging feature was helpful because it was a fun thing to do on a boring drive and it helped a little to keep the circulation going, but it simply wasn't powerful enough to be really effective. The worse thing is that the thigh motor DIED only a few hours into my trip!! It has a 2 year warranty, but you have to pay a $5 "handling" fee! I'm mad at myself for throwing away the box because if I hadn't, I'd return it to Amazon and wash my hands of it.Overall, this cushion is underpowered, unreliable, and not as orthopedically correct as it should be. It is definitely not worth the outrageous price. I regret not buying a simple lumbar cushion instead. I wish I had saved my money for Homedic's highly rated Shiatsu seat cushion instead, although I'm somewhat leary of their product reliability now
