I use three razors. Last year's model of this Braun, a triple blade rotary from the leading manufacturer of rotary razors and standard double edged disposables from the major manufacturer of razors.

OK, now, let's do some math.  I get 10 great shaves from a disposable razor.  I pay, on average, 40c or so for a disposable razor.  That is about a nickel a shave including the shave cream.  At a nickel a shave, it would take 3000 shaves before I would spend $150.  Would take me over 8 years.

Now, anyone that says any electric razor shaves better than a double edged high quality blade razor (not even the expensive triple edged ones, just cheap disposables) is dreaming.  The blace does a much better job and much faster.  But, sometimes, they can irritate the skin, but electrics can too.  I can get irritated by both, sooooo, I rotate between them, and find that reduces my skin irritation problem quite well.

I bought this Braun (last year's model) after reading the positive reviews here, and later bought a rotary razor.  The basic difference is that the cheap model rotary from that major manufacturer is much quieter, shaves just as well, and cost me about 1/3 the price.

The only thing that is better in the Braun is the battery lasts longer.  It is possible also, that in some cases, it gives a slightly closer shave than the rotary, but it also tends to miss spots no matter how many times I go over them.  The Braun also has a problem with my beard when it is longer, like when I have two to three days growth.  The rotary and disposable razor breeze through that three day bush.

The cleaning machine/charger that comes with the Braun is a joke.  Yes, it cleans the razor great, but it is way oversized and you need a large space for it in your bathroom.  Even then, say you have that larger space, you can pay between $5.00 and $8.00 each for the cleaning cartridges.  I have found they last about a month before drying out.  Add $60 to your annual cost to just clean your razor.  The rotary cleans fine with a brush and the disposable razors with water.

Finally, the switch that turns on the razor is right where you hold the razor and it also locks the blade.  So I am constantly locking the blade position by accident.  Inexcusable design flaw in a razor this price.

Don't get me wrong.  This razor shaves fine.  It works best on short beards and works better than cheap razors.  But for $50 you can get a better rotary razor and for $150 you can shave for over 8 years with a disposable twin blade.  Does the price difference sound rational to you?  If it does, click "Proceed to Order"
