 I thought that this would be an ideal product for my aging father as both his sight and his dexterity are somewhat impaired. My first thought was to contact the parent company, Hy-Tek Manufacturing, to ask for a dealer referral and to get some answers to a few simple operations questions. After 3 days they did get back to me, recommending Amazon as a purchase source but ignoring my request for operations information. I sent a second email but it was completely ignored. Maybe this should have been a warning.

 I decided to go ahead and order one anyway. The purchasing process was quick and easy and delivery form Amazon's agent was about 5 days, more than acceptable. The unit comes well packaged with easy to follow instructions. Actual programming is simple and very straight forward. The problems started after successfully programming my dad's satellite receiver. The main menu could not be accessed, the information button was non-functional and two of the numeric keys did not work. I tried all of the codes listed for the manufacturer of that receiver, none of them made any difference.

 Another email to Hy-Tek, and another 3 day wait, produced the response " it doesn't work with all devices and I guess it just won't work with your receiver, you'll have to send it back to the supplier. We will make note of this and maybe we can add this receiver in a future update. " No help at all and no concern or consideration expressed on the part of the manufacturer. If they had bothered to respond to my original inquiry in the first place, I would never have purchased this substandard piece of equipment and wouldn't have been out the freight charges. One of the questions that I asked originally was " will it access the main menu? ", but they didn't have the common courtesy to respond.

 Be aware that this remote will not work with all devices. Even simple, necessary functions like menu and numbers may not be accessible. The manufacturer is slow to respond to customer inquiries and less than helpful if and when they do. Would I recommend or purchase this item again, absolutely not
