I thought this hot air brush would make things easier by not having to hold a round brush and blow dryer. It's a great idea, but it just doesn't work as well as that. 

First let me say I have shoulder length, normal hair, but a lot of it. If I air dry, it is slightly wavy. I used the larger of the two brushes and found it couldn't get through my hair. So then I was using a second hand to try to push the hair against the brush so it would curl around it. That didn't work very well, and I wound up burning my hands more than once. I also found that I couldn't get the same nice curl with this hot air brush that I could get by using a regular round brush and dryer. 

The other major problem was that the brush got extremely hot. If you have an idea that you'll be able to change from the larger brush size to smaller (or the unit without the attachment) or vice versa, you won't without getting burned. The attachment--even the end of the blow dryer itself--is simply too hot to touch. I was doing things like using a hand towel to try to change attachments. 

The size and shape of the unit is also not optimal. I found it too large and awkward to use. The off button is located right where your hand is, so it's easy to bump. Also, there's no cold shot. If you've come to appreciate what that can do for setting a curl, you'll probably miss it like I did. 

Additionally, as another person has mentioned, the unit is very loud. You would be wise to buy a couple foam ear plugs if you are determined to keep this brush and keep your hearing. I don't believe I read any warning about the noise, either. It's much louder than my traditional guy-style blow dryer. 

Time wise, I found that I spent much longer trying to get my hair dry, and then I wasn't fully satisfied with the style as well as the burns and hassle involved in getting there. I gave this a try for a few days and then returned it to the store for a refund. It made me appreciate the traditional blow dryer and round brush. Some things are just not as good as they seem.
