The idea is fantastic.  The fact is I don't wake up immediately like BZZZZ--I'm awake.  Amazingly I can hit the snooze on a regular alarm without ever knowing it.  On this alarm, the light starts glowing and gets brighter and brighter over a period of time you select.  I have mine set for 15 minutes, and usually by the time the light has reached maximum I'm coherent enough to get up.  If the light doesn't do it, you can add sounds ranging from a buzzer to screeching sea gulls--ocean, wind, and ringing bells falling somewhere in between.

The flaws:  

As others have mentioned, the light itself makes a buzzing noise at low light levels.  So when it first pops on in the morning, you also get the annoying filiment vibration of the lamp.  

Secondly, you don't set the alarm for when you want to get up.  You have to go through some math calculations, figuring out when you WANT to wake up and how long it will take you to get to that point.  Then you set the alarm for that earlier time (awake minus groggy equals alarm time).  

Third, if you use the sound in addition to the light, it does increase in volume as the light increases in intensity, but the sound starts out so loud to begin with that the light is really pointless.  A workaround we've found for this is to use the external speaker provided.  Plug it into the back of the light, run it across the room, and bury it upside down under some pillows.  Then pick a sound like "Birds" instead of the lip-curling "Harbor" or "Town".  From it's buried location across the room, the sound hits the right volume about the time the light maxes out.  Whoever came up with the plan of making the sound come on with the light was just not thinking.  

Fourth, the clock lumination can change colors, rotating through the entire rainbow all night long in its default setting.  At first that looks cool.  Until you realize a bright yellow clock glowing in your face at 2 a.m. is just wrong.  The darkest setting is red, and the only way to choose it is to hit a pause button on the back when it rotates around to that color.

So yes, it works.  And it wakes me up without making me use my hammer.  But the design is just plain stupid.  If the manufacturer would wander by here, read this and make a few design changes, they could make a light worth buying
