This thing comes with lots of attachments, of which I regularly used only 2. The vibrating cuticle pusher is silly. As far as all those round discs, it's hard to explain the physics of this, but suffice it to say that since it's a rotating circle, you can only use half of it at a time or you'll experience a bump-bump-bump. The thing rotates at such a speed (even the lowest of the two speeds) that even leaving on your toe or finger for a moment or two can create a burning sensation. 

What I did use was the smallest pointed attachment, which I used to lightly go around my nail close to the cuticle. This was good for when you're wearing clear nail polish and your nails are starting to grow out. You can lightly buff down that ridge of polish. Same goes for the edge where acrylic meets the natural nail. 

The other attachment I used, though less frequently, is the bigger cone-shaped one (kind of looks like the shape of a foam ear plug). That I used to lightly go over my largest toenails to thin them down since I have trouble with ingrown toenails. Again, it's a challenge not to create burn when doing so. 

The nail dryer thing is silly and useless. If you manage to cram your hand into that little scoop without smudging the polish, it doesn't do much anyway to dry your nails any faster than just letting them set. Buy a little fan like they use in the shops if you want faster drying time. This thing isn't gonna do it. 

Other folks mentioned this thing ruined their nails. It's likely because they tried to use all of the attachments (which you'd think you should be able to do, right?). Much regular buffing on your nail thins it down and weakens it too much. The bump-bump-bump of the round attachments likely doesn't help, either. 

A couple times I used this for acrylic nails. I have a tendency to wear acrylic nails a few weeks and then hate them and want them removed---and I'm no longer willing to subject myself to the soak-and-pry method done in the nail salons. So the alternative was soak at home, or just trim down myself and then thin them to a more natural curved shape until the rest of the acrylic grew out. However, I mention I did this only a couple times. That's because apparently acrylics are a bit too much of a challenge for this little "Deluxe Manicure System." After sounding like it was ailing while it filed down the length of 2 acrylic nails, it gave a little bzz and then died. I waited a while to see if maybe it overheated. I tried other outlets. Nope, dead. 

So I'd pronounce this unfit for natural or acrylic nails. If you want something of quality for acrylic nails, invest in the Dremel tools that the salons use (just be sure to get one with a low RPM or foot pedal attachment). If you want something of quality for natural nails, go to the drug store and get some sandpaper nail files, a rectangular buffer, and a cuticle pusher. Sometimes the best solution is the simplest.
