As an esthetician I would advise against using these sort of products. They basically sand your face off. Please leave microderm and abrasive exfoliation to trained and licensed professionals. I can assure you that I am not just saying this to drum up business. 

I would much rather have people not do anything to their skin than to use a product like this. You initially see great results because of the aggressiveness of the exfoliation, but believe me, you will pay for it in the long run. The main ingredient in this product is aluminum oxide (also referred to as corundum), which is characteristically known for its hardness, and is typically used as an industrial abrasive in sandpaper and as a component in cutting tools. This material is rated as 9 out of 10 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness, making it second only to diamonds in abrasiveness. You may argue that this is also the same substance use in clinical microdermabrasion procedures, but you need to realize that these procedures can only be preformed by a board certified plastic surgeon, dermatologist, or licensed esthetician trained in microdermabrasion treatment. I see people coming in every day who use these at home kits and products, and they all have the same issue; It worked great at first, then after some time they started to notice that it wasn't working as effectively, so they used it more often and harder.

Exfoliation of the skin increases cell turnover and helps prepare the skin for hydration and moisturization when done right. When this process is done more often than necessary, or in an overly aggressive manner, you can end up damaging your skin and causing permanent scar tissue build up and inflammation. People don't seem to realize that there is oil on our face for a reason, it's there to protect and moisturize our skin. When you constantly cleanse and exfoliate your skin, you are doing more harm than good. Over stripping the skin causes irritation, break-outs, and heightened sensitivity that rarely can be reversed. When your skin is constantly bombarded by aggressive exfoliation, it's defense is to build up thicker layers of skin for protection. So please, if you do use this, use extreme caution, don't use it on your face, and do not use it more than once a week, if that. 

Ask any esthetician, plastic surgeon, or dermatologist out there and they'll tell you the same thing: there is a reason people don't get facials, chemical peels, and microderm every day, or even more once a month. The adage "too much of a good thing" stands true here.

if you need more convincing, please refer to the following links and make the decision your self.

[...
