Tylenol is an over-the-counter medication that contains as its active ingredient "Acetaminophen". Acetaminophen is an analgesic drug that treats mild to moderate pain, making it a great headache reliever, or a medication that treats mild strains, sprains, toothaches, etc. It also acts to reduce fever. Acetaminophen is commonly used in place of aspirin for those allergic to aspirin. One drawback of Acetaminophen is that it does not reduce inflammation (therefore, it has limited use in arthritis swelling reduction). It has few side-effects. Those with liver disease should avoid Acetaminophen, as it is hard on the liver. 

Tylenol (Acetaminophen) came into great prominence when aspirin fell out of favor due to the incidence of Reye's Syndrome and aspirin in children. 

Tylenol is the manufacturer's proprietary name for Acetaminophen. There is a generic form of Acetaminophen that is also sold over the counter, and this version is much cheaper than "Tylenol", and the container usually contains more tablets/pills, etc. The generic form of Acetaminophen is just as effective as Tylenol, just cheaper priced. 

Sometimes Acetaminophen is combined with other medications for dual action. For example, Tylenol PM has diphenhydramine (the active ingredient in Benadryl), which causes sedation and acts like a good sleeping pill. Diphenhydramine also is an anti-histamine, so it work for itching and allergies too. 

Tylenol is packaged in different strengths: Extra-strength at 500 mg per tablet, Standard (325 mg per tablet), and children's dose of 80 mg. Tylenol may also be packaged in a timed-release version, called "extended release". Rather than the tablet dissolving all at once in the stomach, the tablet slowly releases acetaminophen throughout the digestive tract. 

All in all, Acetaminophen is a great product. If you want a "name brand" of Acetaminophen, Tylenol is your brand (although it will cost more). My choice is to by the generic brand as it is cheaper by the dozen. 


Jim "Konedog" Koenig
