You could get the same info on "percentage" of body fat by going online. Think about it: how does a scale "measure" your body fat? Good question. So I went to the website of the manufacturer and...surprise, surprise...there were no details about HOW this worked. It did, however, note what it was SUPPOSED to detect and how that might connect to body fat.  

The scale supposedly measures something called "electrical impedence" which sounds pretty complex but really isn't all that hard to understand. All it means is that the more fat you have in your body, the more "impedence" you have and the higher the body fat reading. Electricity doesn't flow as well through fat and the scale is supposed to detect that. 

BUT HERE IS THE CATCH - getting an ACCURATE body fat measurement can not possibly be done by just stepping on a scale, especially if the consumer (buyer) of that scale doesn't understand the factors that are VITAL to an accurate measurement. What you have in your body when you step ON the scale is one vital factor. 


Here is just one example of how easy it would be to get a bad reading:
 If you are dehydrated from not drinking enough water or, conversely, you are OVERhydrated from drinking too much water or you haven't measured your body fat within a certain amount of time AFTER exercise or you've been standing too long or you've eaten recently.....you are very likely to get an inaccurate reading and you'll be confused by the variation in readings from one day to the next, not knowing WHAT factor or combination of factors is affecting your reading. Even worse, you'll have no real idea of your body fat.

From what I've seen, these scales do provide accurate weight measurements.But when it comes to measuring body fat,the ads or website do not seem to indicate that you can get an inaccurate reading if you step on the scale at the wrong time of day, too soon after exercising, if you are thirsty, etc.

So save your money.  If you are working out regularly, eating right, getting in shape, etc....odds are that your body fat is dropping and you'll see signs of this. You don't need this scale to prove it (although you might consider it worthwhile to discover your actual body fat some other way). 

Signs of reduced body fat are firmer muscles, looser clothes and (often) a more streamlined figure. Your metabolism is likely to be more efficient, assuming you don't overeat too much. If you absolutely HAVE to know your percentage of body fat, just ask your local physician, trainer or gym director how to get an accurate assesment and when to do so. If you workout regularly at the suggested or peak training level, your body fat should go down, assuming you don't compensate by eating too much. 

So don't count on this scale to give you the consistency or quality of a detailed and CONTROLLED body fat measurement. It won't.  
