If this is to truly be GYBE's last piece of work, then they've concluded their brief and dynamic catalog on a fitting note.

While I still believe "Lift Yr. Skinny Fists..." is their masterwork, "Yanqui" is easily a close second.  Where "Fists" had a broader range of sounds and textures - elements of sacred and profane - "Yanqui" is more balanced and focused.  Although you could argue this point, I think "Yanqui" never gets as high or low as "Fists."

The sound on "Yanqui" is entirely consistent with their previous releases.  As other reviewers mentioned, the only major change is the absence of field recordings, which actually helps to distinguish this album as the finale.  The lack of human voice adds a new aura of mystery to the work.

Well, there is actually another surprising moment on this album: it happens during a movement about halfway into the album.  The guitars drop off, leaving only a small ensemble playing dissonant woodwinds over a steady tribal percussion.  For a few minutes it definitely doesn't sound like typical GYBE.  In fact, the dissonant horns sound almost like a Ligeti composition (although Ligeti probably wouldn't have used a steady rhythm of any kind).  Fear not.  Not only does it work, but it swells nicely into a full band tidal wave.

But here's the most important point I want to make about Yanqui:  To me, it resolves some of the musical themes "Fists" introduced, which makes U.X.O. a fitting conclusion.  The last bit on "MFer=Redeemer P.1" slows way down, featuring one guitar with one violin (i think) playing together in fragile harmony, along with some distortion in the background.  When I listen to this, I can't help but think of the very beginning of "Fists," except the melody changes just enough to resolve the paranoia that  the "Fists" melody introduced.  In other words, it's like I can hear GYBE - at last - acknowledging that there does exist some...hope!...some goodness!....some peace!...in this world - the very place that's inspired them to make such dissonant music.  And, well, if GYBE can slow down and acknowledge something hopeful exists, well then, hope must exist.  Indeed, mother****er does = redeemer.

Of course, they give us one last act on "Yanqui" just to kick our butts one final time.  Yes, it gets so out of control that, at one point, the siren that's blaring in the background seems appropriate.

The very end, I love, as it builds and builds and builds with distortion and droning until the music finally--

it suddenly ends.


"Yanqui U.X.O." is possibly the final act in a brief but brilliant catalog.  It's an awesome finale
