Hounds is an outstanding piece of work. Two outstanding pieces of work if you look at it properly. The first consisting of five individual songs, though all with a very similar feel and texture. The second is a conceptual set of songs called The Ninth Wave, which has had many meanings read into it.

All five tracks from the first piece are excellent. The opening track, Running Up That Hill, is possibly Kate's greatest single of all time (up there with Wuthering Heights and Babooshka), it is a powerful song with simple but highly emotional lyrics. It has been reworked by Aussie outfit Infusion in recent years and become a big dance floor anthem for the likes of John Digweed and DJ Tiesto. It had lost none of it's appeal or sense of urgency over time.

The title track is a beautiful, upbeat song. Again it has made a resurgence in the last year, thanks to mod-rock UK band The Futureheads.

The Big Sky is my favourite (You want my reply? What was the question? I was looking at the big sky!). The extended mix is great and available on the 1997 EMI remastered release of Hounds.

Mother Stands For Comfort is a little out of place, dark and eerie it would have felt right at home on The Dreaming. Kates vocals are, in my opinion, sublime on this track.

The fantastic song, Cloudbusting, nearly deserves a review on it's own. A masterpiece in modern pop, it tells one of the best stories I've ever heard in a pop song, and combines it with one of the best video clips I've ever seen.

The Ninth Wave is beyond review. You need to buy this LP and listen to it over and over again. It will mean different things to different people, and I think that is what makes it so amazing. Commonly interpretted as the story of a woman drowning, I have weaved several meanings through the story at various times of my life, but each ends happily - the whimsical The Morning Fog makes sure of it... Else, just put it on and lose yourself in the soundscape, read nothing into it and take the Ninth Wave for a musical ride. That's my favourite way to listen to it.

Finally, if you ever need to test the ability of a piece of sound equipment, say the $2000 amplifier you're about to splurge on, take the remastered LP as your test. The percussion should be clear, the vocals crisp and the stereo separation precise. An outstanding LP in every way!
