I have seen Al Jarreau 20 times in concert (and recently saw Al and George perform at the Hollywood Bowl) and am a long-time fan from WAY BACK. There are a few Al CDs that you just play forwards and backwards (and back when they were cassettes, you wore out the tape) because they're just PERFECT. "Breakin' Away", "Jarreau" and "Heaven and Earth" come to mind. Well, add "Givin' It Up" to that list. If you're an old-school Al fan and you're wondering whether to buy this CD, BUY IT. It will live up to all of your Al expectations. There's a "Look the Rainbow" feel to it, there's a "Breakin' Away" feel to it, there's a "Jarreau" feel to it. There's even a "Glow" feel to it (when you think about tunes like "Milwaukee" and "Have You Seen the Child?"). Grassroots Al.

It's got the production values of "Heaven and Earth" and "Tenderness". FABULOUS production, arrangements, gathering of talent. There is not one song on here that you will skip as you're listening to it driving to work or whatever. In fact, if you're throwing a party and want to instantly get people in a jazzy party mood, put on this CD because between everybody from Chris Botti to Jill Scott to a SOULFUL Paul McCartney, people will stop and say, "Wow, listen to Jill and George tearing up 'God Bless the Child.'" And "Is that Paul McCartney tearing up 'Bring It on Home to Me'?" [Yes, it is.] Meanwhile, Al and George are working their magic the entire time, and guests will say, "Listen to George right there." And, "Al is jamming right now." It's a conversation-stopper provided by the best thing that can stop a conversation at a party: fabulous music that people must comment on. Of course, that's where the conversation picks right back up, so you win either way. The blend is perfect: Just a touch of scatting, just a touch of voice-beat, with lots of fabulous jazzy vocals by both Al and George, tons of great music solos, and George playing a perfect guitar.

If you're a George Benson fan, you will be THRILLED with this CD because George provides a fabulous through-line to every piece. He's ever-present with every wonderful thing he ever did on a guitar. He fronts many of the pieces, and he's not in any way relegated to "background guitarist." He IS the music in every piece, with few exceptions. As much as I love Al, this CD is MAGICAL because of the blend of George and Al. ONLY THESE TWO CAN PAIR UP TO MAKE THIS KIND OF CD. There IS NO OTHER TEAM who could have pulled this off. You need Al's voice and George's guitar. Period. In fact, I'm guessing much of the jazz music world is a tad jealous right now of how simply GENIUS this CD is, as in, "Dang. These two are GREAT together. Wow."

Bottom line: This is a perfect blend of these two greats' talents. George takes care of the music, while Al provides the wide gamut of vocals he's an expert at (and that only he can provide). If you've been a long-time fan of either of these two, you won't be disappointed. It's not lopsided. And it's OLD-SCHOOL in every good way. 

My prediction: This CD will sweep the Grammys. If it doesn't, there is no justice. Like another reviewer on this page, I intend to buy this CD for about EIGHT people. It's just THAT perfect
