Unlike other classical-crossover artists minus Emma Shapplin, I believe Sarah Brightman works for art, not for money, or fame, or show off. Like what she said in an interview, she sees music a a whole--music is to be enjoyed (and categorization should never get in the way). That's apparent from this very endearing album La Luna.

I think this album is as a whole better than any song in it although my favourites are still the mystical Figlio Perduto, the dreamy Serenade/How Fair this Place, the gloomy Gloomy Sunday, and the sweet La Luna. 

I read what a reviewer said about how any other sopranos could sing better than Sarah on La Luna/Song to the Moon. I think that's not true, at all. Just because the singing isn't wagnerish, it doesn't mean it's easy or lacking in technique or whatever he said. I think it's easier to just sing full out operatic like, say, Renee Fleming than singing with so much passion and being lilting without losing any of the voice's qualities (laid back with 'THAT' voice at the beginning and successively powerful at the end). And, duh, she sings classical properly, ffs.
And tell me a name of a soprano who could sing How Fair this Place with such grace, without sounding like a screeching steel can.
I've also listened to many other versions of Gloomy Sunday. Billie's is weird. Sarah McLachlan's is out of context. Sinead o' Connors' is shabby although the intelligence behind the singing is fine. Only Sarah Brightman's and Bjork's versions are best for my ears.
I have introduced her music (from Phantom of the Opera to Dive to Timeless to Harem) to many people, and apparently they enjoy them very much! There is this radio that's a favourite of us where Gloomy Sunday and Time To Say Goodbye are played as much as Bon Jovi's It's My Live and Sophie Ellis Bextor's Take Me Home and Offspring's Pretty Fly. They're good music and enjoyable.

Albeit I also like many other sopranos. I like Lucia Popp's interpretation of Richard Strauss' lieders, Christa Ludwig's of Schubert's, Natalie Dessay, Kiri te Kanawa, etc. :
