This is my all time favourite Jacksons album. This album, along with `Mama can't buy you love' and anything by Donna Summer were hogging the airwaves during my first visit to the States as a kid.

Comprising mainly Jackson compositions (and production), it showed a more mature and funky side of the group, and was far more consistent than their hit filled but patchy Motown works. 

Filled with their trademark smooth harmonies, lots of horns and Michael's distinctive vocals, the album hit #11 on the billboard album charts (#3 R&B), was certified platinum and had a smash hit single in `Shake your body (down to the ground)' #7 pop.

`Blame it on the boogie' opened the album in style, a funky upbeat disco tune that one couldn't keep still while it played. Other dancefloor anthems are the horn laden `Things I do for you', the frenetic `All night dancin'', and the shimmery `Shake your body' with its distinctive riff, which hinted at future MJ songs like `Don't stop till you get enough' and `Workin' day and night'.

For me however, the songs that really did it for me were the ballads.

`Push me away' is a lush sun kissed ballad featuring a passionate vocal delivery from Michael, alternating from full voice to falsetto with ease. Great horns!

Title track `Destiny' has an acoustic guitar intro which leads into an amazing ballad where Michael declares `if it's the rich life I don't want it/happiness aint always material things'. Great backing harmonies too.

`Bless his soul' is simply stunning! Featuring pensive lyrics about trying to do what's right, but never seeming to please anyone. `You just can't please the world and yourself' sings Jackie. This song starts off tender with congas, fleeting horns and strings which after the second chorus builds to a superb climax of `the life you're living is dangerous' and a fab outro of `hey, ha ha ha'.

Then comes the final track and my favourite. The dramatic `That's what you get for being polite'. A thumping piano leads to horns and sweeping strings, and then Michael tells us the sad tale of some lonely guy named Jack who wants to be what he is not and would do anything for love. Dazzling instrumentation, a stellar vocal performance from Michael, 

The cover art was a painting depicting the group with their huge afros, and the original vinyl release folded open like a book with individual shots of the brothers. 

One of my favourite childhood albums, one of my all time favourite albums, and a classic!
