Well it's not quite as good as Rising which is the best album ever but it's still amazing.

1.Man On The Silver Mountain- 10/10 This track is a classic and is still played at every Dio concert and Ritchie Blackmore still performed it at every Rainbow concert until Rainbow disbanded in 1997 but anyway this may be Ritchie Blackmore's strongest riff ever! and Dio's vocal performance is excellent. Anyway it's a great fantasy song by Dio and Blackmore and still got radio play so it appeals to everyone.

2.Self Portrait- 10/10 Excellent dark song by the band which fits Dio's voice perfectly another classic!

3.Black Sheep Of The Family- 8/10 Good song but not a Rainbow song it's a cover and that's a shame because I would have loved to hear Dio's brilliant lyrics another original song but anyway still a good listen

4.Catch The Rainbow- 10/10 Another classic from this album as Dio shows how well he can sing ballads as well as epics and rockers. Blackmore has a solo full of feeling and this was performed at every Rainbow concert until Dio left the band.

5.Snake Charmer- 10/10 Another song that takes place in the middle ages which is Rainbow's trademark. Anyway this song is very underrated and should have been a classic. Dio has brilliant lyrics and vocals as usual and it's no suprise that Blackmore supplied excellent solos and riffs for this one

6.Temple OF The King- 10/10 Here is the best ballad of all time!!! Ronnie's vocals are perfect for this song and his lyrics are amazing too. Blackmore throws togethor and a great arrangemant and solo aswell to make this maybe the best track on the album.

7.If You Don't Like Rock N Roll- 8/10 Kind of cheesy lyrics but a good track and it sounds more like an Elf track.

8.Sixteenth Century Greensleeves- 10/10 Great song! A real classic as Dio puts togethor another great fantasy song. Blackmore's riffs is brilliant and his solo is full of bends and shredding.

9.Still I'm Sad- 10/10 Well the version with vocals is much than this instrumental version but this version is brilliant too. The live version off On Stage however with Dio's vocals blow it away. I still wonder why there weren't any vocals on this.


The band is

Ronnie James Dio- vocals
Ritchie Blackmore- Guitar
Gary Driscoll- Drums
Mickey Lee Soule- Keyboards, Piano, Mellatron
Craig Guber- Bass

2
