Poison the Well are one of those bands that I was really big on right when I first started listening to them, but which faded a lot pretty quickly.  I can't really say why.  I like their work, but it doesn't inspire me the way it used to.  Still, I do like them, and this album particularly.  Maybe not as much as Opposite of December, but whatever.  Yes, this isn't as 'hardcore' as their older stuff, but I've never been hardcore kiddie.  (I'm a metalhead)  And frankly, being a modern hardcore band ain't much of a compliment in my book.  It's funny, lotsa tech-metalcore and other 'core derived bands are good, but most straight hardcore/metalcore is staggeringly boring.  So, while old PTW was semi-technical metalcore, this album is pretty much just extremely loud emo.  But, they now how to be 'emotional' and not come across as sissies,(well, most of the time) and Jeff doesn't sing in an unbearably affected manner.  Course, the 'extremely loud' part helps a lot too, and Jeff's growls/screams are absolutely devastating.  Way  better than on their previous albums, and some of the best extreme vox from anyone, ever. 

As an extremely heavy emo album, the instrumentation here is pretty bland.  There isn't much real riffing going on, not in the metal sense anyway, mostly just a single  note/chord repeated a great many times, than another one etc.  But, the vox and atmospherics carry the day.  The standout track is 'Crystal Lake', an absolutely bestial piece of deathcore.  I've listened to quite a bit of death metal in my day, but this has got to be one of the most devastating tracks I've ever heard, largely because of the absolutely impassioned vox.  Lotsa extreme vox lack emotion, but never Moeria's (probably spelling that wrong, sorry)  That, and the instruments are more noteworthy, very nasty and chaotic.  Also, it earns points for taking some of the seriousness out the genre with its jokey lyrics. (For the culturally backward, this song is a first-person narrative from Jason Voorhees, killer of most of the 'Friday the 13th' films.  Hence the name 'Crystal Lake'.)

There are no truly weak tracks here.  'Ghostchant' is a good opener, nicely displaying the extreme tonal dichotomy of the album, mixing the fierce screams with some nice melodic vox.  'Loved Ones' is one of the very best tracks, again carried almost entirely by the powerful  vox.  Tracks 5 is a cool two part thing  mixing the rather pleasant, harmonica and bass driven intro with one of the more hectic, grinding main songs.  The album takes a turn for the lighter at about track 8.  'Apathy is a Cold Body' is a very emo-y track, but it's got a lot of nice melody to it, so it works.   'Sound like the End of the World' is another strange one.  It's a slow doomy piece with oppressive atmosphere and a thick layering of vocal lines.  Not the best thing here, but it works and it earns some points for being different.

Yes, a solid, if not great album.  Check it out
