  This album sends mixed messages to the listener.  Some tunes are overally happy, some quite depressing. I can only explain it in parts:

Radio Song - the first track of the album comes out quite upbeat and rollicking.  A guest vocal from KRS-One makes it quite a lively tune.  Puts you in the mood for a more Green-style album.

Losing my Religion - Huh? What's this? The album delves into uneasy angst as a troubled Stipe spills problems out to the listener.  The tortured riff holds out until the end, telling the listener this isn't quite like Green or Document...

Low - The depression lingers on.  Low is a tune sadened speech about the absence of love and how it can make you feel so low.  My favorite on the album, I think it's delicate and sad.  My #1 downer tune.

Near Wild Heaven - Another uneasy tune that has a touch of angst.  Deals with the apprehension of love.

Endgame - A curious tune.  Can't be interpreted either happy or sad, for it is instrumental.  It could go either way, it's written in a major key, yet the melody sounds sobered, almost as if it's a requiem.

Shiny Happy People - Takes the listener up to a very uncomfortable level of happiness.  A low point on the album, yet I interprate it by feeling uneasily happy after the anti-pastorial earlier tracks.

Belong - One track I don't understand, yet enjoy and see it as a break from the main goal of the album.

Half a World Away - Ah, so beautiful.  Essentially about enjoying life's finer moments at the expense of moments to come.  Truly happy, but still holds on to the softcore angst.

Texarkana - The lyrics and pulsing bass line make me draw conclusions that it's about unfulfilled life goals.  Delves deeper into seeds of depression until...

Country Feedback - The climax of saddness on the album.  This song is excruciatingly sad.  The melody, the lyrics... It kept me awake all night.  One of the saddest songs I've ever heard.

Me in Honey - A powerful, joyous ending that basically sums up the fact the everything turns out OK in the end.

This album is highly recomended.  R.E.M. are an incredible band.


