                I appreciate bands like Ima Robot, Film School and electroclash artists for trying to add a little balance into Alternative music, or at least I appreciate Film School for trying to merge the beauty of Electronica with Alternative and allow it to simmer down to the always wonderous shoegazing while bringing back the trend of the New Wave you loved in the 80's. The thing about it is it is bands like these that are adding their own style into music making it worth your minutes and expanding your genres from just on band. Have you heard Depeche Mode's albums with a wind of Boards of Canada?

                Call this the album that it would have made more sense for Maximo Park to create if you will but this album is America's response to all other international bands showing us off hard. (The band is from San Francisco, I believe) And their influence for this album is a mix of Electronica and 80's music (My Bloody Valentine. New Order? Depeche Mode?) all leading them to create an album that doesn't quite call the band in question an American Radiohead per se, but with half of the music smothered in swirling guitars, accompanying keyboards, and a leaders effort to push the band forward, a band that is trying to reach heights of originality. 

                Film School's debut (if you aren't counting their imported EP) kicks off with am intro wielding only swirls of guitar and electronics before finally bringing you into an illuminating "On and On" that may force your urge to name this band after Interpol and Elefant and a little bit of The Bravery in there, too, but will not let you throughout this entire album. Their current single "Pitfalls" may cause them to swing on the vine of similarity since everyone is trying to bring back New Wave these days, but worse can happen for a band like this. The backward keyboard melody should more than make you tell the difference. The second actual interlude "Garrison" is where Boards of Canada's wind starts blowing through the CD, before heading back into the record that will be likely to redefine the sound of "cool". If there is ever an album to chase after and count on for the safety of New Wave and the health of Alternative, I don't see a better candidate for leg-ups than Film School's latest.

Rating: 7.5/1
