Without a doubt, this is a must-have for any fan of the Go-Betweens and the place to start if you are new to the band.  "A man far wiser than myself once referred to "16 Lovers Lane" as 'the indie Rumours'" the liner notes say in this fantastic re-issue of the Go-Betweens ultimate set of songs.  No truer words were ever spoken about this amazing set.  Why this album didn't spawn at least five top 10 singles is a mystery that will never be solved.  But needless to say this is a fantastic set made even better by the wonderful packaging and extras included with this re-release

For those of you unfamiliar with the Go-Betweens work, this was the consummate work of their 80's heyday, for a great many reasons.  The music is bright pop music, crystal clear, but in no way is it featherweight pop.  The songs are beautifully arranged, every instrument, vocal, handclap, and anything else perfectly placed with not a note out of place, but this can be said of nearly every Go-Betweens release.

The lyrics, plaintive ruminations on love, are clearly written by two songwriters/lyricists going through the opposite sides of relationships.  I will not go into detail here as the liner notes tell the story, but the interplay within the band as these relationships play out are what drove the entire release.  Each lyricist, Grant McLennan and Robert Forster, gets about half of the album's lyrics, and that is what makes the CD special.  Images of the giddyness of new love ("Love Goes On!") are juxtaposed with images of love lost in such as way as to be almost shocking.  "I'm ten feet under water/standing in a sunken canoe/looking up at the water lillies/they're green and violet blue/still the sun it finds/a place to light me" from "Love Is a Sign" has to be one of the best descriptions of how it feels when a relationship falls apart that has ever been placed in song.  These themes are repeatedly dealt with in different ways, from young lovers meeting and breaking up to the "old" love of couples with children ("You Can't Say No Forever") having a fight.

The bonus material in this handsome double-disc set is truly welcome.  The videos to "Streets of Your Town" (still undoubtedly the best song on this incredible collection) and "Was There Anything I Could Do?" underscore the relationships going on in the band while not seeming too terribly out of date.  The bonus disc of outtakes and b-sides is also a fantastic addition to the set as it includes several songs that didn't make the final album cut but are presented as they were at the end of the recording sessions, being nearly complete but having that rough edge of a final demo.

The real treat come with the acoustic "demos" that are included.  "You Won't Find It Again," "Apples in Bed," and "Head Over Heels" are played only by McLennan and Forster on acoustic guitars, providing for an intimacy that is unmatched anywhere.

To top it all off, the packaging (including an awesome essay by British songwriter Andrew Male) is exquisite, providing detail on the circumstances surrounding the album as well as any pertinent recording information.

This is "16 Lovers Lane" as it was meant to be heard--enjoy!
