 "The Dreaming was one of those albums that I found in my parents CD collection when I was young and I haven't outgrown it yet. My parents seemed to hate it and never bought a Kate Bush CD after it (though I recently bought her whole collection except "The Whole Story" as it's just a greatest hits!). This album took me a very long time to get into however. I listened to it several times as a child and then put it away because I thought it was too strange. I took it out then several years later and loved it. I would now say it could be my all time favourite CD and is better than "Hounds Of Love" as I see it. The songs all stand on their own and Bush's voice is brilliant and her quirky themes shine through. This is the only album that I will never skip a track because I'm always in the mood for them all.

 1. "Sat In Your Lap"- A great opening track. Bush deals with whether she can be bothered to do something or not. The instruments are great as always.
 2. "There Goes A Tenner"- A notable song for the quirky British accent Bush puts on. The instruments are very good and remind me of the '80's (as it was made then!). That was a good decade for music!
 3. "Pull Out The Pin"- The piano arrangement is excellent in this song and the chorus is so good. The lyrics are about someone who is in war and thinking about pulling out the pin of a grenade. The song was inspired by a documentary.
 4. "Suspended In Gaffa"- I don't actually know what Gaffa is but this song is still so great and catchy. The lyrics are quirky and the instrumentation is excellent.
 5. "Leave It Open"- An excellent song that reminds me more of "Hounds Of Love". The instrumentation is excellent as always.
 6. "The Dreaming"- Another brilliant song which is so funny because of Bush's Australian accent. The production is good and so is the songwriting.
 7. "Night Of The Swallow"- The use of Irish traditional music is a nice effect to this song. The singing by Bush is superb and the song is flawless!
 8. "All The Love"- The song has a sadder feel to it but is excellent. The lyrics are unusual and very well done. The instruments complement Bush's superb voice and never overtake!
 9. "Houdini"- The album cover is to do with this song. The song is excellent with a really quirky chorus and good instrumentation.
 10. "Get Out Of My House"- A perfect way to end an amazing album. The lyrics are so good and it is so funny at the end when she turns into a mule (within the song obviously). It is something only Kate Bush could have written!

 Overall I think it is an amazing album though I can see why people don't like it. It could be a little too experimental for some though for me it is perfect. Kate Bush shows she was the original alternative female and the best (yes, she's better than Tori Amos). She is one of the few geniuses of music and an all time amazing artist. Reccomended to everyone into alternative, especially Tori Amos fans!

 MARK- 10/1
