I'm a horn performance major, and I bought this box set because I needed recordings of all of Beethoven's symphonies but at a low cost.  Now first off, yes, they sound great.  However, I've noticed a problem in the first movement of the fifth symphony: Karajan changes Beethoven's orchestration!  Allow me to explain:

The horn players at the time would have been using valveless horns -- instruments bound to the overtone series.  On the "natural" or "hand" horn, pitches that fall on the overtone series can be played without adjustment (like a bugle) but any other note must be bent into tune by using the right hand to close off the bell.  This technique was effective in allowing the horn to play most chromatic pitches, however, the "stopped" notes have an entirely different tone color; most composers favored "open" pitches, especially for symphonic works.

In the exposition, the second theme is announced by a call in E-flat by the horns.  However, in the recap, the same call must be in the tonic (C), as dictated by sonata form.  The horn part is written for E-flat horns, which meant they would have been tuned so that the harmonic series emphasised E-flat major, the relative major.  The E-flat call of the exposition falls entirely on partials the hornists can play with no significant adjustment -- they are all "open" notes.  However, in the recapitulation, the C call would include two "closed" notes if it were played by the E-flat horn.  The horns could change crooks and become C horns, in which case the call would again be all open partials, but Beethoven does not do this; I am uncertain whether he wanted the horns in E-flat for the transition, leaving them no time to change, or if it was simply not yet common practice to change crooks in the middle of a movement.  For whatever reason, Beethoven left the horns in E-flat and rather than writing the call in the horns again, which would include stopped pitches and have a very different sound, Beethoven moved the call to the bassoons.

In Karajan's recording, the second theme is announced by the horns in both the exposition and the recapitulation.  Granted, if Beethoven had been writing for our modern valve horns, he might have written both calls in the horn section.  There is no way to prove for certain that this is the case, however.  It strikes me as very arrogant to "correct" Beethoven's instrumentation, and I feel that a respect for historical accuracy by preserving the master's writing is a more prudent performance choice. 
