Without a doubt, the highlight is the DVD of the 1975 show in London.  "Born to Run," the album, had put him on the cover of "Time" and "Newsweek" the same week in October, 1975, one of the very few times that has happened for a non-news story.  

The publicity and hype generated by Columbia records was so overwhelming that there was a backlash:  "Nobody can be that good."  

So here we see his first show ever in the UK, playing to an audience of professional critics and amateur skeptics, people thinking, "hey, 'Rock and Roll Future,' this is the land of the Beatles, the Rolling Stones, The Who - who do you think you're kidding.  No unknown kid from America deserves 'Time' and 'Newsweek.'"

The show begins in almost total darkness, a piano softly plays, then harmonica, and a soft spotlight lights the kid from New Jersey who sings "Thunder Road," accompanied by only piano.  An unknown song at the time, "Thunder Road" has become a Springsteen classic.  IMHO, especially given the expectations, it is a perfect understated opening.  

The DVD has the entire show, including everything from the hard rock of "She's the One," and "Born to Run," the song, to a much slowed down version of "For You," an underated sleeper on his first album, "Greeting From Asbuty park, NJ."  Bruce accompanies himself on the piano and I swear, this version of "For You" is so beautiful it could be the scruffy New Jersey kid channeling god.

Any skeptic who walked out of this show thinking Springsteen was merely hype has no ears, no taste, or was xenophobic.  The show gives more than a big hint that this Springsteen guy is for real, as a songwriter and performer, and that "Born to Run," especially, is an extraodinary album. There are only eight songs, but none are fill.  Repeated listenings of the four corners of the album (before CDs) "Backstreets," "Jungleland," Thunder Road," and the title song are so good they become... well, addictive, works of genius, and lead to still more listening.  "Tenth Avenue Freeze Out," "Night," and especially "She's the One" could each be the centerpiece of almost any other album.  Even the whispered "Meeting Across the River," fits and helps the album become a coherent whole.  The songs taken together are more than the sum of the parts.

As a footnote I'll offer the opinion that Bruce only wrote one other album that is as good as "Born to Run" and that is his next one, "Darkness on the Edge of Town."  Everything he has released is good;  a good bit of it is great, but I don't think anything else matches "Born To Run" or "Darkness."  I don't know if two other back to back albums this good have ever been released.  

The DVD of the show gives us a big early peek at the guy who would develop into rock's greatest performer.  By 1985 he would be the biggest rock star in the world, selling out multiple nights at football stadiums.

The remastered CD is nothing special to my ears.  Perhaps an audiophile could hear improvement.  The DVD, "The Making of 'Born to Run,'" is interesting, but will probably appeal mainly to fans.  

However the DVD of the 1975 London show ought to appeal to anyone who likes Bruce, or rock & roll, or showmanship, or history.  Its a treat
