This outstanding effort by Prince consists of mostly spare jazzy R&B tunes, driven by incredibly loose, free-flowing live instrumentation.  I could only begin to tell you about the stylistic variety on this album.  With the three disc format there is a lot to absorb, and the third disc really can largely be done without, but the first two truly do rank amongst his best work.  It should also be noted how especially romantic Prince is on this album.  This album was made around the time that he entered into his first marriage, and it shows because this c.d. is overflowing with outstanding romantic ballads.  Most of his albums only contain one or two ballads, so if you've been longing for an album that includes more, then this album should really appeal to you.  This c.d. does not fit into the "standard" Prince "mold" ( I know that it is perhaps a bit oxymoronic to speak of a "Prince mold" but his personal signature is not quite as bold on this album as it is on many of his other works, even those that are admittedly not as good).  The reason for this is that Prince follows rather than leads on a good portion of this album.  The fact that there are two covers on the first disc alone shows that Prince was in the mood to do what was being done instead of doing something new (he covers songs by Bonnie Raitt and The Stylistics) which is unsual for this constant innovator, but this album is so great because he is so skillful that he does it better than almost anyone else.  One minor problem that I notice is that it seems that on a few songs particularly on the first disc, Prince just doesn't pay much attention to the lyrics.  There are too many generic R&B come-ons and cheesy cliche 90's catch phrases such as "gettin' your groove on', and Prince is much too clever, witty, and creative to resort to such things. But, really that is just a minor quibble because the music truly is consistently outstanding throughout the first two discs.  And then, he has songs such as "Soul Sanctuary" and "Let's have a baby" which are two of the most well-written ballads that I've heard from him.  "In this bed I scream" is just magnificent both lyrically and musically.  He takes the lead again on this track and he does it in a major way.  This clever, poetic, and romantic track has an infectiously catchy both rhythm and melody that would easily pack any dance floor.  Other highly impressive moments include the high powered funk of "We gets up", the absolutely brilliant and stunning arrangement on "Curious Child", and the sincere, pure passion of the just so perfect R&B/gospel blend of "Savior".  "Joint 2 Joint" is impressive just for having so much variety in terms of sounds and elements, with each part so effectively enhancing a different part of the story. The first two discs are really solid overall.  The third disc however finds Prince trying his hand at techno and other forms of conventional dance/club music, and the results are not very impressive.  But, I don't see how they could be, even coming from Prince.  Techno for the most part is insanely repetitive, monotonous, and downright drone-like.  There are only three songs on disc three that were really worth it (Slave, My Computer, and the title track).  Well, maybe four, his cover of "La la (means I love you)" is actually really good too.  Those songs could have been put on the first two discs and the 3rd disc really could have been omitted.  The most impressive feat that he manages to accomplish on this entire album is making a great chorus and a great song out of the line "www 'dot' emale `dot' com" on "Emale" :-).  I was unaware of this feat for a while because I used to always skip this song because it started off with that really annoying 90's G-funk whistle.  So overall, this album really does rank amongst Prince's best work, and it should especially appeal to those who would like to see him do more ballads and dive into more R&B
