For the longest time, I have thought that observational truths were highly prone to being the most piercing of things: I have believed that the truth could either hurt (or disturb) you terribly, or make you laugh so hard, to the point of hysteria--or a combination of both extremes. There are many things to put this theory to the test, but to cut it all short, all one would need to do (if by chance it hasn't been done already) is experience the observational humor of Richard Pryor to possibly get a better understanding of what I am talking about. This classic comedy album from 1975 is a prime example.

Richard Pryor has been hailed as a genius by many, and I would have to agree: it takes plenty of intelligence and natural talent to be a comedian for starters, but to also turn many disturbing observational truths of everyday life into something painfully, body-breakingly hilarious takes a whole lot of something as well. From the very beginning, to the tail-end of this CD, 1975's _Is It Something I Said?_ is a non-stop laugh fest, that personally gets *me* laughing so loud and hard, I end up pretty much abusing almost every part of my body in the process: my throat, my lungs, my sides, my stomach--they all end up feeling beaten and worn-out. Richard's takes on drugs, sex, race & racism, relationships, and politics in general are every bit as painfully observational as they are profane--and did I mention HILARIOUS? The racy quality of the material found here makes so much of what's referred to as "cutting-edge" these days, seem so contrived and unaffecting; Richard's observations seem just as relevant now--if not more so--as they were 30 years ago. I couldn't be graphic in pointing out some of the sickeningly funny moments on this disc -- and there are MANY -- but I should say that the opening one-two punch of "Eulogy," and "Shortage of White People," and Richard's take on his own battle with cocaine addiction in the "Cocaine" bit get me cracking up SO hysterically, I sometimes need to be careful not to make myself sick. And again, those are just a few of the MANY hysterical blasts found here.

Richard Pryor is considered a comedic legend for a reason. This album here is a good example as to why he is considered as such. Just don't play it for the kids, and for the love of god *don't* play it during the middle of the night; you most certainly will disturb the beauty rest of your family, and your neighbors. And you know what could happen if you disturb one person's beauty rest: just imagine what would happen if you disturbed the beauty rest of many..
