First, I'd like to say that I am so glad there are artists like Amel around who aren't trying to fit in with today's commercial R&B scene. As a long time fan of R&B and soul music I can't help but feel sad and dissapointed at the direction the genre is taking, especially in regards to female singers. She may be beautiful, but she doesn't need to use her looks to overcompensate for any lack of vocal talent by flaunting herself. Amel has a beautiful soul, and you can hear that through her wonderful voice and lyrics. Every song on this album has at some point or another touched me, some songs straight away while others grew on me slowly. You know how sometimes when you're listening to music and a particular lyric or vocal piece makes you shiver? Amel's got that down for me.
I was firstly introduced to nusoul by Teedra Moses, someone who I've admired for two years now, and who to me seemed one of the few decent R&B singers left. Through Teedra I stumbled on Amel's "Bravebird" and became more and more curious as I listened to the album over and over. Like with most nu/soul, the love I have for each song grew slowly, and songs I thought weren't for me suddenly became my favorites on the album. I love that about Amel; she makes me suprise myself, as I become emotionally involved with her music and voice over time until I'm enchanted.
"For Real" hit me instantly as a beautiful song. I never get tired of it's cute opening where Amel's daughter babbles something in baby talk!
I'd love to talk about each song individually, but I'd probably just bore you. To me Amel's music is a personal experience, and most likely strikes people in different ways. I will mention however, "Congo" - one of the songs on there I was tempted to skip at first but has fast become something of an obsession which crops into my head throughout the days, with it's monotonous jungle vibe. Other personal favorites include "We Can Be New", "Say You Want It", "All I Got2"... Hell the whole album really.
Along with other outstanding artists of the nu-soul genre, Amel has succesfully metamorphosised my taste in back music. Trust me, you'll never go back to commercial R&B again
