This CD offers a great deal of incredible music by John Lennon during 1969 and the early 1970's when he fought our government in order for him and Yoko to live in the United States. The quality of the music is excellent and after you listen to this CD you want to run to watch the film!

The CD starts off strong with "Power To The People." The song makes its political statement and offers a great beat that sticks in your mind. It is also very upbeat and aggressive in its tone which attracts the listener immediately to make them want more. 

The listener won't be disappointed. The tracks that follow provide great insight into John's politics at the same time that he provides us with his singularly beautiful music. Great songs on this CD include the autobiographical "Nobody Told Me" in which John admits that his struggle with our government both to end the Vietnam War and to remain in the USA is harder than he thought it would be. "Working Class Hero" has a folksy, bluesy feel to it but then the CD goes right back to that unique John Lennon rock and roll flavor with the song "I Found Out." "Bed Peace" follows as a type of introduction to the only Beatles song on this CD, "The Ballad Of John & Yoko." Despite the catchy rock and roll beat to "The Ballad Of John & Yoko," the lyrics tell the sad story of how people harass John and Yoko. Another great song is "Give Peace A Chance;" the message here is obvious. "Love," "Imagine," and "Oh My Love" are beautiful ballads with excellent musical arrangements; and we get a new instrumental version of "How Do You Sleep" that is very well done. 

In addition, I like the two live tracks from the John Sinclair Freedom Rally in 1971. "Attica State" is a brand new release and "John Sinclair" packs a strong punch! These tracks demonstrate so well John's ability to connect with his audience in a live setting.

One special song on this CD directly challenges each and every listener to personal reflection and insight: "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)." John and Yoko tell people to know the difference between the blessings of peace and the evils of war, to cherish what is morally right and to fight against anything that is morally wrong. The song also expresses hope for a peaceful future beyond the current Christmas season. "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)" continues to play on radio stations every Christmas season to this day.

Yes, another Amazon reviewer correctly notes that Yoko talks a little bit over the very beginning of the song "Oh My Love." Thank goodness that she doesn't talk over the lyrics! A few brief dialogue excerpts from the film are peppered throughout the CD but they never overlap with the songs.

The CD ends with the same strength that it started with: "Instant Karma! (We All Shine On)" is an excellent song that most Lennon fans will always love.

The liner notes include some great black and white pictures of John and Yoko, including two from the infamous "bed-in." You get the song credits along with the year that each song was released and there is a brief essay by Yoko Ono herself. 

Overall, this CD is more than just a retrospective of John's music during a turbulent period in his life. Oh sure, almost all of this music has been previously released. However, that's not relevant here. The CD celebrates Lennon's ability to communicate his political beliefs through his songs. These songs remind us to avoid genocide, to be true to oneself and to strive for peace--now. I highly recommend this CD for Lennon fans, fans of great 1970s rock music and anyone who wants to experience how John Lennon taught us what was right through his music.
