I love EVERY track on Ne-Yo's CD "in my own words!" Next let me thank Ne-Yo for bringing true R&B back to the industry! I dont consider songs about cheating on your bf/gf/husband/wife R&B. R&B is supposed to be about love - thats why people call them slow LOVE songs. And from 2001 - 2005 new slow love songs didn't exist. I ended up listenin to the same songs from da 90's over and over until I got so tired of them, and was fortunate to be lucky enough for my radio station (that plays mostly rap: a genre of music I dont like) to play "so sick" by Ne-Yo. It was a great song. This is literally the FIRST and only R&B album that I never have the urge to use the fast forward feature to get to the next song! Ne-Yo's lyrics are strictly romantic and sweet too! He is a lyrical genius. His voice is soothing and melodic. Most R&B albums obviously have rap tracks or rushed R&B songs as filler to probably meet the deadline or get the CD out as fast as possible and reducing the enjoyability of the CD, but THIS album has ALL songs that are great. All of the tracks on this album are great, but here are the ones that are SUPERB:

1. So sick - 9/10 (would be a 10 if it wasn't played over and over and with so many different versions. Although I can still listen to it over and over
2. When you're mad - 9/10 (for those guys who like the look on girls faces when they get mad. Maybe for Michelle Rodriguez fans. :) )
3. Get Down Like that 10/10 (both versions) (I call it "dont get down like that") (This song is for the guys that are completely faithful like me) (if you're not a player, and proud of being faithful, this is da song for you)
4. Sexy Love - 10/10 (great song. um hmmm.. what can i say about THIS one about its lyrics?.... oh yes.... this song is for the guys who have a girl and when she touches them, it just feels like.... Magic.)

This is da only CD dat ever deserved 5 stars by me, the only reason I gave OTHER R&B albums 5 stars is cuz i took into consideration: there was no R&B album that existed that had NOTHING but good tracks, and most had poorly done upbeat song
