I will state first off that I'm one of those hipster snobs who dismiss Pearl Jam's debut album, "Ten," as the whining chart-whoring pseudo-anthemizing overpriced-flannel-flying watered-down-grungifying crowd-surfer-pandering piffle that it is.  If you think that makes me inherently biased (unbalanced?) this review probably won't be "helpful" to you, and you can move on the other 250 or so reviews.  If you decide to hear me out, I promise to be fair, 'cause even though I may be a hipster snob, I can't deny to myself the sweet rockin' going on in "Vitalogy."

This album represents one the best meeting points between what was then called "underground" or indie rock and the "classic" rock mainstream.  Thus the production quality is raw when it needs to be but polished enough so it doesn't sound sloppy.  Ballads like "Better Man" and its companion piece "Nothingman" are clearly influenced by Neil Young and even "Nebraska"-era Springsteen--they're sincere & emotional but not mushy & sentimental.  "Not For You," with it's lyrics about how Eddie Vedder's small table has been invaded by uninvited hordes, is a none-too-subtle complaint about Pearl Jam's status as "millions served" rock gods and a longing for the more stripped-down aesthetic of punk.  That, of course, is more directly the point of "Spin The Black Circle," an old-fashioned punk barnstormer that sounds like a close cousin to SST-era Husker Du.  For Vedder, the joys of vinyl are that they seem "warmer"--a symbol of "tradional values" in a rock 'n' roll sense: independence, hard work and homespun crafts are better than the shiny, sterile corporate plastic of compact discs.  Never mind the fact that vinyl was just as much a product of corporate culture; Vedder just feels a pleasing wave of childhood nostalgia cradling a 12" record sleeve in his arms and watching a needle bury itself into those mysterious black grooves.  

Pearl Jam may be in many ways traditionalists who long for the simple joys of just playing for the kids without corporate interference.  On the other hand, the Big Corporate Evil has enabled them to reach a huge audience, which in turn helped them finance the elaborate packaging of "Vitalogy"--it's designed as a salute/satire of a very old hardcover book advising youths on good physical/mental/spiritual hygeine.  The album, therefore, aims to strike a balance between the fondly-remembered rock stars of the band's own youth (the Who, Neil Young) and the more recent indie-punks that re-sparked their interest in the Power of Rock (Fugazi, Sonic Youth)--hence the  title. 

The album is perhaps unnecessarily padded out with unfinished or noveltly tracks like "Bugs" and "Hey Foxymophandlemama That's Me," even though they're intended to give the album a looser and more light-hearted feel.  Still, some of the songs that work the best are gloomy ones like "Last Exit" and the somewhat proggy sea chanty "Tremor Christ" (whose title I dearly hope is meant more as metaphor than an endorsement).  Even though it's uneven, "Vitalogy" is the work of a self-reliant, even ornery band that's in full control of their ideas--even the bad ones.  It's also not their fault that they influenced the likes of true bottom-feeding whores like Stone Temple Pilots and Matchbox 20.

