It would be easy to say that this is the single greatest performance of the Mahler Eighth ever recorded; I believe it is. But it would be difficult to say that and have it mean something, because after experiencing this colossal achievement, the competition (including, alphabetically, Abbado, Bernstein, Chailly, Haitink, Horenstein, Kubelik, Nagano, Olson [Colorado Mahlerfest], Solti, and Tennstedt, among others) suddenly seemed far less impressive than they once had. What sets this Mahler Eighth so far apart from virtually every other is its sense of ecstasy; of a transcendent vision being communicated, of a religious fervor. Mahler had an extraordinary plan in putting together what he considered his most important work, such that he could bring us to the brink and say, "There. It's out there. You can't see it, but you can divine it" (and call "it" what you will: "God" or "Love" or some all-embracing power outside of ourselves). Most performances miss the mark, then, in one of two ways: by remaining resolutely earthbound or by trying to capture that vision in terms we can understand. The problem, of course, is that if we can understand it, it's no longer a vision, it's something mundane. In the closing pages of Wit's extraordinary (and that word, as well as any other, hardly begins to do it justice) performance you become aware of that vision existing just beyond your comprehension. You know it's there only because you're willing to take that leap of faith. And that's what I mean when I say he brings the piece a sense of religious fervor. There is nothing dogmatic about the kind of religion I'm referring to here.

So let's look at the basic components of the performance, element by element:

The sound: Spectacularly natural and all-encompassing. The soloists emerge from the overall sonic image like members of the orchestra, and the chorus, orchestra, and organ blend to perfection.

The soloists: To a letter the finest group I have ever heard. There's a distinctly Slavic sound that seems altogether appropriate given Mahler's Bohemian roots, and a refreshing lack of self-importance. No operatic grandstanding here. And for the first time ever I felt as though I was missing something by not following the words (no libretto is provided, though it is available online and can be found easily enough elsewhere) because everyone sounded like they cared dearly about what they were singing. They weren't going through the motions, making pretty sounds. They had something imperative to communicate and wanted us to know it. To be honest, part II has often bored me to tears (with Chailly's performance being particularly offensive in this regard) but here I was literally on the edge of my seat throughout, impatient to hear what (and who) came next. And throughout it all, so importantly, there was a sense of spiritual ascent from beginning to end.

The choruses: Easily the best I've ever heard. The way they rip into "Hostem repellas longius" with their shrieks in the great double fugue of part I is unforgettable, and the fugue itself, which has never reminded me more of the "rabble" section from the first movement of Mahler's Third, literally had my spine tingling throughout its entire course. That's nothing. I got chills right at the beginning of the Chorus Mysticus and six and a half minutes later they had not abated! I have NEVER experienced anything like that before. Ever. And I don't just mean while listening to music.

The conductor: What can I say? He holds the symphony together with a tautness and logic that nobody ever credited this work with having before. How? I have no idea, but when the start of part II doesn't jar, as it usually does, you know you're in for something special. Maybe it's because the orchestral prelude there seems faster than usual, or because he finds so much inwardness in the first part (the first entry of the soloists, for instance, is so raptly caressing).

The orchestra: While they don't have the "Mahler sound" that the Concertgebouw or Vienna Philharmonic may produce, there's an earthiness (but never sloppiness) that sets them far apart from the bleached, sterile sound of too many American orchestras that make Mahler sound not like Mahler.

To sum up, then, I could not speak for an hour after hearing this recording, and still burst into tears at the mere thought of it, especially those radiant, visionary, and extraordinary closing pages. Record of the year; record of the century! It crowns not merely my Mahler collection but an entire lifetime of listening to great music.
