I read about Lila Downs' new CD, La Cantina, in Victor Cruz- Lugo's article entitled, "Sweet Sorrow," published in the June-July 2006 issue of Hispanic Magazine (page 76).

It is an honor and a pleasure to offer these few reflections on Lila Downs' new CD, La Cantina:

1.  The CD cover is awesome, a beautiful and colorful work of art illustrating  Lila in a pensive and contemplative mid-air pause with her guitarra ready to rock.  It strikes me as an example of the rising feminine in our time, awakening the historically-oppressed feminine from its slumber and into an alto canto of unstoppable and celebratory song.

2.  Each track is a lively composition of Mexican corridos and sones impregnated with Lila's lovely voice that makes me feel so proud to be mexicano-chicano-hualahuisense and a member of our precious universal human family.

3.  I first was introduced to Lila Downs and her musical talent when I enrolled in writer Juan Felipe Herrera's legendary Manikrudo Summer Arts class at Cal State Fresno in 2000.  Juan Felipe invited her to our class room and she impressed us all with her down-to-earth talented voice.  Later that night we all saw her in concert at the Tower Theatre in Fresno and I've been a fan of her work ever since.  

4.  This new CD is indeed a delightful experience.  I appreciate that she moved into the corrido, son, etc. genres which makes me appreciate her music so much more.  It has so much more appeal to me without bordering on the commercial and superficious.  It's authentic and retains its articistic musical integrity.  I think that this is a hallmark that we can expect from all of Lila's work.  She is a true artist.  I've always appreciated her darker and earthier songs in her first two CDs, however, this new stride into popular folk corridos is a movement into another aspect of the heart and soul of the mexicano experience.

5.  I am very impressed with Lila's voice and how it has matured since the summer of 2000.  There seems to be more color and flair in it and definitely mucho corazon. Ahua! Her solos in "Yo ya me voy," have my soul spinning to the outer edges of infinity.

As Victor Cruz-Lugo writes, "Through it all, Downs' powerful alto voice cuts a path into the deepest pits of your heart, tears something out of there and somewhow we as listeners wind up asking her for more of the same."  

This is my favorite of Lila's repertoire.  It is my opinion that those who purchase this CD will not be disappointed.  Enjoy!



 

  
