I was a big fan of this band's song "Rock'n'roll highschool", and I recently saw the documentary about them, so, when I saw this anthology selling for around $15 in Australia, I thought I'd take a punt by buying it. My thoughts on this album are similar to the ones I had for the 3 CD Johnny O'Keefe collection [reviewed at this site by me]. Namely, overall, the album is very listenable, with some standout tracks. As with the JOK album, this album is/was great value for money, considering how many songs you get for the price.
   Of the songs I PARTICULARLY like on this album, and the ones I have been listening to quite a bit, are:

Rock'n'roll High School. This song still rocks after all these years.

Do you remember rock'n'roll radio? Good song, though it never got the airplay that the previous song seemed to get here in Australia.

Chinese Rock. An Easter Egg song!! Never heard this song before, but it is an instant classic. Very catchy.

Danny Says. Another Easter Egg song. Takes some repeated listening to get into, but once you do that, it gets high rotation on your cd player.

To me, I can see why The Ramones are considered founders of Punk. At least as far as the music is concerned. However, The Sex Pistols truly DEFINE Punk for me. They have the whole package which I identify with Punk...namely, the punk sound, and the incendiary, anarchistic lyrics. 
   The Ramones are more middle-class sounding, to my ears at least.
    I'm surprised at how poppy/boppy The Ramones are. To me they sound like a Punk Motown band. One of the songs on the 2nd cd, I think, has that classic punk sound, but I didn't make a note of the title. Might have to edit that song in later...could be "Endless Vacation"?
   Lastly, the song Danny Says, almost comes across as a Punk Beach Boys song.
    Overall, the anthology is often 'samey', but listenable nonetheless, with a handful of songs that I consider 'high rotation' worthy.
   Just remembered, "Endless Vacation" seems a terrific song too. Will have to listen to that some more-I've currently got the 1st cd in my cd player. P.S. Listened to this song last night. Really good-the fast talking bit in the song reminds me of the equally good, if not better song by Australian act TISM [or This Is Serious Mum]-"[He'll never be an] ol' man River", about River Phoenix, amongst other people. TISM, like The Ramones, can do bad taste well.
