Wow, this album takes me back to the fall of '79, 
around the same time as MJ was taking over 
the world with his scorching solo debut "Off The Wall"!! 
Both of these albums got heavy rotation on my turntable 
and were house party essentials when I was a 15 yr old 
kid spinning the hot joints of the day!

At this time, Prince was still a virtual unknown 
to the mainstream, but to a hip urban audience 
comprised mostly of blacks, gays, and ultra-hip whites 
who really knew what time it was, 
this LP served as notice that a "new thang" was 
brewin' in Minneapolis that was going to take 
the pop world by storm in a few short years! 
From the opening track, "I Wanna Be Your Lover", 
his first big single (gold) to the rockin' 
"Why You Wanna Treat Me So Bad?", which also was 
a single and a true fan fave!--
To "Sexy Dancer" which was sure to bring everybody 
to the dance floor and into a frenzy!
Prince then cools down the mood with 
"When We're Dancing Close and Slow", 
which is just beautiful with its sparse piano 
and acoustic 12-string guitar--one of his many 
underrated slow jams of all time!
 
Then Side 2 opened with the pretty "With You"
and into the scorching rockalistic ode to female 
bisexuality.."Bambi", which still knocks me for a loop! 
I've had the pleasure of seeing him perform this 
song live twice down through the years..
once in 1980 during his "Dirty Mind Tour" and 
again in 1992 during his "Nude Tour" 
while I was overseas!--Awesome!!

Then there's what I call "The Great Triplicate"...
"Still Waiting" (another underrated slow classic!), 
followed by what is to me, the definitive version 
of "I Feel For You"(no disrespect to the 
great Chaka Khan!), followed by another 
underrated slow jam masterpiece 
"It's Gonna Be Lonely", which still sends 
me today at 41 the same as it did when 
I first heard it at 15! 
This album was Prince's first Platinum album, 
proving that he (at only 22) was indeed a 
hitmaker and one to watch!
This album and the next one, "Dirty Mind", 
served as a changing of the gaurd from the older 
established innovators of that day like 
Stevie Wonder, Earth,Wind & Fire and 
Parliament / Funkadelic, etc. & 
is an essential if your collecting Prince classics! 
In fact, you can't go wrong with this kat 
between his debut, 1978's "For You" to 
1987's "Sign O' The Times"...it just doesn't 
get any better!
