Several tunes on 'Back to Oakland' feature Tower of Power at their best.  One in particular that keeps me coming back is the deeply funky instrumental track, 'Squib Cakes'.  

Featured soloists include a short, mellow guitar solo from Bruce Conte, followed by Greg Adams' fluegelhorn that first lurks in the pedal range (leading one to believe it's a trombone!) and then soars brilliantly higher and higher to a dramatic finish.

Tenor madness abounds from lead saxman Lenny Pickett (known primarily for his work as lead Tenor for the Saturday Night Live band), wailing in-tune in the difficult altissimo range (jazz musicians call these 'freak notes' because they are not notes typically included in the range of the instrument ... ), while at the same time refusing to compromise on excellent rhythmic and melodic ideas throughout. 

Chester Thompson completes the soloistic foursome with a chunky Hammond organ solo that takes you back to a smoky bar in LA in the early 70s - without the probability of cancer.  Lyrical yet hard-driving, Thompson lulls us first into his solo space by filling in behind the band as they chant 'Squib Cakes', then takes off on his own flight, delving out perfect 16th-note runs as though Bach suddenly had learned some jazz Hammond himself.  In the middle of the solo, as if to a testament to the tightness of the groove, Thompson lingers on a treble note in his right hand, chunks out chords so symmetrically with the rest of the rhythm section with his left, that in the days of hearing this on vinyl, I wondered if my record was skipping through that section!  

To finish the groove, at the end of Thompson's solo, the horns return to fill in a bridge with quick triplets.  After he closes, we're back to the head to close out the tune. 

Even with so much to savor, this syncopated gem will leave you hungering for more, even after the final stroke of the last chord.  The musicianship and tightness of their groove more than make up for the bland lyrics on the album's other tunes.  I have listened to this album for 30 years and revel in its freshness every time I spin it. I recommend it as a definite primer for anyone wishing to explore Tower of Power's "sound."

- Kathryn Shut
