This is, I believe, the best Fleetwood Mac album ever record by the band. It begins with a nice quick paced tune, "Second Hand News" and proceeds to move into many textured songs from there.

The album itself does not have a bad tune on it. In fact, of all the 'regular' albums from Fleetwood Mac (excluding Greatest Hits compilations), this album has more hits on it than any other. Hits like 'Dreams,' 'Never Going Back,' 'Don't Stop,' 'Go Your Own Way,' 'The Chain' and 'You Make Loving Fun." All of these get enormous radio play. Moreover, 'Dreams' was a number one hit, and the Album itself held the number one slot for months on end, and has sold over 18 million copies in the U.S. and over 30 million worldwide, putting into the top 50 best selling albums of all time.

In fact, an interesting tid bit from the liner notes of the CD describe how the album had such an impact on America's youth that during that generation if you were to ask a student to spell 'Rumor' there would inevitably be two 'U's' in the spelling. Now that is a very strong impact on culture. 

Every song on this album is arranged on the album as if it flowed right into the other making for an overall well rounded album. One of my all time favorite songs from Fleetwood Mac is on this album, "Never Going Back" which contains some great acoustic guitar work from one of Rock's premier guitarists, Lindsey Buckingham, and, in my opinion, the best Christine McVie song ever written, "Songbird."

Now, with this release, you can also get, on a second CD, the various rough takes and outtakes of the songs on this album. This makes for great listening, to hear how the songs developed and were recorded. Moreover, early demos are included along with two 'Jam Sessions." Now, more than ever, this is a must have CD for any lover of Rock music (or music in general for that matter).

If you are a Fleetwood Mac fan, then chances are you own this album, but if you are just getting introduced to the band, then you must buy this CD. I highly recommend it
