Few "metal" bands can successfully integrate melody into their music without falling back on the overused "power ballad". Tesla seems to be able to turn it on when needed, and shut it off when unnecessary. This debut from the Sacramento quintet is full of enough speed to satisfy any metalhead, yet also contains enough substance to satisfy those who want more from their rock than double kicks and 140 on the metronome.

The album starts off with a great rythym section groove, then growing and ripping into EZ Cum EZ Go, a song that takes the listener up and down more often than a Valencia theme park ride. Comin' Atcha Live seems destined to be the song that the band opens their live shows with, falling back into the rif-filled melodic offering of "Getting Better". Then the pace swells again into "Too Late For Love", and thunders into the anthemic fist-pumping "Rock Me To The Top". "We're No Good Together" may start like the dreaded power ballad as Jeff Keith laments about the proverbial one that got away, but screams to a conclusion through a profusion of lightning fast (pun intended) guitar solos. "Modern Day Cowboy" is the token political anti-war statement, slows down a bit for "Changes" but up next is one of their fans' favorites. "Little Suzi" begins with a tasty acoustic piece, and progresses into the culmination of the bands' melodic songwriting talents as they chronical the ups and downs (pun intended) of a young starlet discovering the high costs of fame. I'm a little surprised at the way the album closes, though. After the huge highs through the middle of the album, the final three cuts are somewhat disappointing to me. Don't get me wrong,  they're still decent, but I would have liked these three shifted to the middle of the album and slid the rest towards the end - "Little Suzi" would have been a great way to end the album. Overall, even though the band did a lot of great stuff (including their biggest commercial success) in later albums, this remains their best body of work
