I got Secret Story as a Christmas present last year. I had asked for Imaginary Day, because the only tune I had heard from Pat Metheny was "The Roots of Coincidence," and I was itching for more. I still couldn't wait to hear what was on Secret Story, but I was hoping it would be in the same vain as The Roots of Coincidence. What I ended up hearing was an incredible CD with a vast scope, filled with emotions that change from tune to tune. Searching for tunes to sound like Roots was not successful; instead, I joyfully found a complete and very unique set.

I agree with others that for maximum experience you should have enough time to listen to it in one sitting, straight through. The musical roller coaster is the most extravagant when done this way. 

I found myself trying to pick out favorite tunes, but I ended up picking ones for only a particular "mood" (such as an upbeat or sedative one). I could just as easily pick a few different tunes for another mood. That's why it's fun to listen to it straight through: no other album of mine gives me so much in so little time. Of course, Metheny has apparently mastered the flow of the tracks, too: one leads right into the next, creating, oh, maybe a "story?" I don't know the story, but it's a lot of fun to make up a different story each time you listen to it. 

I guess the tune that I most like to play, no matter what mood I'm in, is "Cathedral in a Suitcase," with it's mesmerizing 3-against-2 beat and a well-crafted three-chord progression that it revolves around. Tunes range from the euphoric (Cathedral, Finding and Believing, Facing West, The Truth Will Always Be), to the sweet (The Longest Summer, Sunlight, Always and Forever), to the smooth (Rain River, Antonia, As a Flower Blossoms, See the World), to the calm and reflective (Above the Treetops, Tell Her You Saw Me, Not to be Forgotten). Of course, this is all the tunes, and it makes for such a satisfying experience.

Since this is my first Metheny CD, I am definitely going to pursue more. Metheny seems worth my time and money
