Tears for Fears was not the average 80's pop band, even if they looked like it on the surfice. They used synthsizers, drum machines with a meliodic and hook laden sound. But the music itself was often melancholy and they brought up serious issues like family values like few contemporary bands at the time had the guts to sing about. Tears for Fears got their name from Arthur Janov's primal scream therapy and they band consisted of Roland Orzabal and Curt Smith, two highschool friends from Bath, England. Roland was the writer of most songs during the career while they both were co-singing. Some of the music may sound a little dated today (this being released in 1983) but the touchy subjects they bring up are still present today. 

The opener and title track is a great pop song and at the same time a good introduction to what is coming, it's about children suffering without anyone noticing or caring. Tears for Fears trademark was mixing good pop with serious subjects and they really succeeded with that. "Mad World" was one of the big hits and recently covered by Gary Jules and taken back to the charts again as the sountrack for "Donnie Darko". The moody alternative song brings up the sad reality we're living in, a world without rules or morals and the people suffering from it. Excellent and haunting ballad. "Pale Shelter" was originally released in 1982 but failed to make it big on the charts, so the song was re-recorded, remixed and re-released and the result was a big hit even for "Pale Shelter". The song is slow paced and distinct with guitars, synthesizers and percussion. It brings up the lack of love some children get cause of bad parenthood. "Ideas As Opiates" is almost minimalistic, it basically only feauture percussion and slow piano sound, the lyrics are also sparse. "Memories Fade" is also a stripped and melancholy song, with it's haunting lyrics and saxophone it's one of this album's highlights.

 "Suffer Them Children" is a synth laden pop song about children with problems growing up cause they're ignored and not given too much love. Watch Me Bleed" got very strong lyrics "Heaven comes to he who waits/ But I know Im getting nowhere/ And all the deeds of yesterday
/Have really helped to pave my way" and is overall another great pop/rock song. "Change" was one of three big hits on this album, it got a trademark marimba sound and a great hook which paved the way to the charts. The song is focusing on the destructive behavior of a loved one. "The Prisoner" is the darkest of songs with some very strong lyrics and arrangements suited for a horror film, the lyrics are sparse and they're almost whispered. The last song is called "Start of a Breakdown" feautures a catchy synthesizer sound and meliodic percussion. Why this song was not released as single is beyond me, but it's one of the best songs. This remastered version  feauture remixed of Pale Shelter", "Mad World" and "Change and the non-album song "The Way You Are" is present. It's another fantastic song by the way. Uptempo with great percussion arrangements. Nice it was added.

Overall, Tears for Fears magnificient debut was one of the most daring and thoughtful albums of the 80's. It's equally intellegent and beautiful full of good lyrics and great arrangements. With this remastered version you get better sound + bonus tracks and the non album song "The Way You Are". Some of the songs may sounds a little dated today, considering all the new equipment used in today's music, but the lyrics and subjects they brought up are just as present in today's society. This album may get a little too personal and the lyrics get frightening when you listen closely to them at times, however if you're a music fan that likes smart lyrics and lyrics that make sense then this is something for you. It's a concept album and it very thoughtful and sincere. One of the greatest debuts of the 80's, let alone albums.
