Being quite the fan of Grace Slick, Jefferson Airplane, and other 60s groups, I bought this album only having heard two songs on it--"Daydream Nightmare" and "Outlaw Blues".  At first I was a little puzzled--The Great Society sounded different than any band I'd ever heard before.  After listening to it about two more times, I realized this uniqueness was a good thing!  They sound a little rougher than your average 60s band, and they were--Grace, her first husband, and her brother-in-law assembled this band out of a few of their friends and it only was around for about a year.  The Great Society definitely isn't a band for everyone, but if you love interesting-sounding music, want to hear some of the earlier forms of psychedelic rock, or are just curious about how Grace Slick sounded before the *smoother* recordings of Jefferson Airplane, this is the band for you!  
A quick review of all the songs:

Sally Go 'Round the Roses: A great way to open this CD.  Pay special attention to the instrumental break in the middle--it's amazing!  (Any time this group does an instrumental solo, it will be VERY good.)
Didn't Think So: In my opinion, one of the weaker songs on this album, but a fine song just the same.
Grimly Forming: An overall fantastic song to listen to with intriguing lyrics and another great instrumental section.  (I love the tambourine--it adds an interesting air to the song.)
Somebody To Love: Yes, here it is--the ORIGINAL version of the Jefferson Airplane hit, written by Darby Slick, Grace's brother-in-law.  This has a much less *psychedelic* sound than the JA version, but they're both equally as good.
Father Bruce: This is a very catchy song written about Lenny Bruce as if he were a preacher.  Fun to sing along with.
Outlaw Blues: This is a cover of a Bob Dylan song, I think.  Grace's voice on this is incredible.
Often As I May: Another fun song that's almost as catchy as Father Bruce.
Arbitration: This song is mostly some great instrumentals but features some singing from David Minor (he did rhythm guitar, I believe.)
White Rabbit: Yup, another original version of a JA song!  This song's about 6:20 because there are 4 minutes of great guitar/sax playing at the beginning.  Almost better than the JA version!
That's How It Is: A cheery song with fun words.  You'll definitely be singing this one aftewards.
Darkly Smiling: This is another "weak link" on the CD.  (There aren't many, thankfully!)  It does have some interesting lyrics, though.
Nature Boy: Grace's singing/recorder playing make this song memorable.
You Can't Cry: This is a fun rock song, with the usual great guitar playing from Darby Slick.
Daydream Nightmare: This is one of the more *psychedelic* and dark songs on the album, with great bass and guitar playing and more of Grace's recorder.  This is definitely not a song to skip over.
Everybody Knows: Also a fun rock song, and yes, another catchy one.
Born To Be Burned: This song is a little less exceptional, but it does have a good bass line, and some good guitar.
Father: A FANTASTIC way to end the album!  This song is a nearly-seven minute long instrumental that builds up to an amazingly frantic crescendo.  Not a song that will keep you bored
