1990. It dosen't seem like that lond ago. When a barley known Mariah Carey stuns the world with a powerful 5 octave voice that hasen't been heard since Minnie Ripperton. She made her appearance when she signed on to Columbia Records after the now forgotten Brenda K. Starr, whom Mariah was a backup singer for at the time, gave Tommy Mottola a demo tape of her songs and the rest was history. Now about the album.

The album starts off with her first single "Vision of Love" a powerful song that spent weeks atop the charts and made Mariah a star. You can feel the suspence as Mariah builds up to the bridge and gives the world their first hearing of her beautiful 5 octave voice. Truly to this day, still one of her best songs.

"There's Got To Be Away" changes pace from love to world issues that are still relevent today. This was released as a single in the U.K. (it wasn't released in the U.S. for fear that it would break her string of four number one hits) yet it failed to chart.

"Someday" is the next song and was the albums third single. It too hit number one in 1991. This song is great to hear after a breakup as Mariah warns an ex-lover that "the one you gave away will be the only one your looking for." This song may seem a little out dated now as it still has some heavy 80's synth beats.

"I Don't Want To Cry" was the albums fourth and, in the U.S., the last release. It too hit number one in the summer of 1991 and within a year Mariah had a whopping four number one hits under her belt. Something that will not be accomplished for a long, long time. Though Mariah has declared her hatred for the song as she fought over the production of the song and was dissatisfied with the final product, the song still has all the work of a great Mariah song and it is the only song that Mariah does not hit her famous whistle register with.

"Vanishing", though never becoming a single, is probably one of the best Mariah recordings. A gospel like song with amazing vocals over a pounding piano is enough to make anyone think their in heaven. Though the song is spookey enough at the chorus when she softly coos "swiftly you're vanishing, drifting away." It has also been called a "hidden treasure" by many reviewers.

"All in Your Mind" is another song that realy showcase Mariah's vocal capabilities. Though this is one of the few songs that sound dated, but definatly worth a listen.

"Alone in Love" is a song that is soft and pleading would make anyone run back to Mariah. Truley a Mariah great.

The next two songs,"You Need Me" and "Sent Up From Above," really are the weakest tracks on the album and do bring down the feel of the album. They also sound dated and are not the style in which Mariah is famous for. Still, every Mariah song is worth a listen, so go for it!

"Prisoner" is a truley a great Mariah tune. Though this has a rock influence as well, she does a great job with the vocals and the lyrics stay insode your head. This almost became a single in the U.S. but Mariah finished her new album quicker than originaly planned.

"Love Takes Time" truly will have a place in my heart. Every time I hear this song it takes me back to 1990, almost like a little time machine. Putting this song on her first record almost didn't happen, as Mariah har intended it to be on her next record. Though Tommy Mottola and other executives persuaded her to. The style is not that different than "Vision of Love," where it build untill the brige where Mariah lets off her signature high note. This was also the second single of the album and became her second number one in late 1990.

Though Music Box, Daydream, and The Emancipation of Mimi would go onto break records and are considered some of Mariah's best albums, there is no way you can leave this one out. This album truley is the one that started it all. To this date it has gone 9X platinum and made Carey into a star and would be the start of years and years of great music from THE voice of this generation. Though this album was heavily criticized for being to similar and formulaic to Paula Abdul, Janet Jackson, and especially Whitney Houston, it still ranks as one of the best albums of the 90's and of all time. For some people this album may be a time capsule of 1990 and for others who are now expiriencing this music for the first time one fact will always be true. This is one of the best debuts and albums ever and was the start of a simple Long Island girl named Mariah Carey, who became a superstar.
