Eloy (name taken from H G Well`s Time Machine) is a German Atmospheric, Progressive Art Rock band that was formed back in 1969. Through the years, personal wise, the band has totally turned over, in some positions, several times. Their originator Frank Bornemann (guitars/vocals) has persevered, presiding over a three decade band, that has turned out some of the best progressive rock music, I've had the fortune to hear.

OCEAN

Ocean, their sixth album, released in 1977, is a concept album, depicting the rise and fall of Atlantis. Though there are only four tracks, they average almost eleven minutes each. Many Eloy aficionados point to this album as their `tour de force'. It is excellent, but as far as I'm concerned , based on what I've heard so far, there is no album that stands heads above the others.

Overall, Ocean has an atmospheric ambience reminiscent of Hawkwind or a more unknown band that I once reviewed named Ship of Fools. It also reminds me Jeff Wayne's, War of the Worlds.

Track listing

1. Poseidon's Creation (11:38) **** Has a long droning medium pace and a whinny guitar intro. At the 4:40 mark, Bornemann finally begins the vocal. There is quite a lot of guitar playing on this song, augmented occasionally by the synth.

2. Incarnation Of The Logos (8:25) **** Has an atmospheric vocal beginning. The song doesn't seem to have much of a melody until the 3:40 mark when the synth/organ takes over with a pleasant one, assisted by some percussion and a bell now and then.

3. Decay Of The Logos (8:15) ***½ The shortest song at eight minutes seems a little jerky at first with more monologue than music. When it does get going after about three minutes it's still jerky in a medium paced beat. Strong synth playing through the middle.

4. Atlantis' Agony At June 5th - 8498, 13 p.m. Gregorian Earthtime (15:35) *****
This is a monster song. It is like nothing I've ever heard. Except for a fifty some second monologue at the beginning, "Atlantis..." starts with a truly intriguing eight minute plus instrumental intro. Not just any intro, like you're used to, with a full orchestra and violins. No this is an spacey atmospheric intro that would make the great Pink Floyd, envious, with the propitious use of ghostly sounds and special effects segueing into an amazing five minute organ bridge, with no beat just the Hammond a few side effects and you. No it doesn't get boring. Instead it sets you up for the vocals, which issue forth at about the eight minute mark. Slowly the rhythm section establishes a slow beat, while the singer does a great imitation of Bob Dylan, with a remarkable spacey synth breaking in between the vocal. But we're not done. With about two minutes left, the band picks up the tempo to a medium fast tempo (the first time I`ve heard them play at this speed). Now the violins join in with the guitar and synth for the finale of this great finale.

Total Time: 43:53

Line-up
- Frank Bornemann / guitars, vocals
- Klaus-Peter Matziol / basses, vocals
- Jürgen Rosenthal / drums, percussion, flute
- Detlev Schmidtchen / keyboards, mellotron, xylophone, voice
- The Boys Of Santiago / chorus (1)



CONCLUSION

One of the factors, I find appealing about this band, is that in the span of three decades, they managed to present a style of music which was compatible with each era, so listening to their albums from different periods gives us a window into the progressive music of various time periods. Eloy's musical tempo almost never exceeds medium and on Ocean tends to be more in the medium slow range.

Listening to this and other Eloy albums I hear influences from numerous other bands. Like many prog bands I hear Pink Floyd but I also hear Uriah Heep, Moody Blues and Bob Dylan (really, on track four!)
