I pretty much agree with EJ Rupert, but the good songs on this soundtrack are so strong that they make this album damn near classic all by themselves.  I gave this album 4 stars for that very reason.  Though it was never released as a single, "My Block" is one of Tupac's best songs (pre death row era is the best 'Pac in my opinion).  I don't think there's any question that every rap music fanatic recognizes Red and Meth's "How High" as an unquestionable classic (and this is the grimy version of How High....not the fluffy remix).  I still get open to that beat 11 years later.  Though it is somewhat formulaic, "Poppa Luv It" is still a dope cut from LL Cool J.  Bone Thugs N Harmony, Mary J. Blige, and  Onyx contribute "Everyday Thang", "Everday It Rains", and "Live!!" which show each artist in vintage form in my humble opinion.  Also, "Sowhatyousayin'" is the ideal west coast gangsta track in my mind.  Even when you get past those great tracks, you have other bangers like "Kill Dem All" [Kali Ranks], "Glamour & Glitz" [A Tribe Called Quest], and "Still Can't Fade It" [Warren G.] that still make for a great listening experience.  Hell, even The Dove Shack blew up on the strength of "Summertime In The LBC".  And the live version of Biggie's "Me & My B*tch" is definitely different from the studio version and it's great.  There's plenty to love about this album.

I also agree that there are too many filler tracks.  "What's Up Star", "Ol' Skool", "Domino's In The House" and "Zoom Zooms & Wam Wam" all fall under the filler category.  Actually, the filler tracks are the only things wrong on this album and I'd say that only 10% of the album is filler.  The rest is bangin'.

The Show Soundtrack is definitely a worthwhile pick up for any hip hop fan.  There are bangers on this album that make it a must own.  If you were into hip hop around the time this came out, you remember when half of these songs were played for the first time.  There are definitely some classic tracks on this album.  I highly recommend it.

Also, for those of you that want more artists represented, check out the "Rhyme & Reason" soundtrack (which is pretty much similar to this, but with better collabos).  You'll find a lot of artists there too.

Standout Tracks: Poppa Luv It, My Block, Live!!!, Kill Dem All, Summertime In The LBC, How High (My Favorite), Everyday Thang, Everyday It Rains, and Me & My B*tch [Live
