After leaving (or being dismissed from) Pink Floyd in 1968 due to his LSD use & erratic behaviour, singer/songwriter/guitarist Syd Barrett re-emerged in 1970 with his debut solo album, "The Madcap Laughs." The album did not come easy, as Syd never fully recovered from his drug use, and it clearly shows in his ragged performances on "Madcap Laughs." Producer Malcolm Jones did what he could with Syd for about half of the album, before handing the production reigns over to Barrett's former Floyd mates Roger Waters & David Gilmour to finish the job. Throughout the album, bum notes are played, beats are missed, and Barrett sings off-key. And on the rocker songs, the session players (from the group The Soft Machine) sound like they are struggling to keep up with Syd, who could hit a rough patch at any moment. For any other artist, this would all be nothing short of disastrous. And YET....in the case of Syd Barrett, any and all mistakes are immediately forgiven. Why? Because Barrett's songs on "The Madcap Laughs" are all wonderfully written, and although Syd's voice and guitar-playing are obviously not in tip-top condition, you can plainly hear on this album that he's trying. He's really, really *trying* to do his best, and his efforts really do shine through. For every bum note there's a passage that Syd plays beautifully, for every missed beat there are many beats that are hit right on schedule, and for every note that Syd sings off-key, there are many moments where his very distinctive, British voice is magical. And of course, there's Syd's lyrics. You may not know what all of them actually *mean*, really, but to my ears, they're still poetry. The rockers are still powerful ("No Good Trying," "No Man's Land," the rockabilly fun of "Here I Go," and the classic "Octopus"), and the softer numbers still have great beauty to them ("Terrapin," the passionate "Dark Globe," the effective "Golden Hair"---based on a James Joyce poem---and "Long Gone"). Even the more ragged numbers like "Feel" and "If It's In You," somehow still hang together quite well (amusingly, we even hear some brief banter from Syd in the middle of "If It's In You," as his voice goes wildly off the map, he stops playing, prepares for another take, and finally gets through the song). When all is said and done, "The Madcap Laughs," warts and all, is an excellent album. It is a flawed masterpiece, and it shows that Syd Barrett, even with his mind irreversibly fractured by this point, was still a genius musician.   
