Martina McBride's "Emotion" album contains many pop country elements, but is still nonetheless a great album. Here's how I rate each song. (out of a 5 star scale)

1) Do What You Do- good song, but takes a little to get used to.
(4 stars)

2) Anything's Better than Feeling the Blues- good songs, good lyrics. (4 stars)

3) I Love You- great song, Martina's most successful song on the country charts, spending 5 weeks in the top spot. (5 stars)

4) Make Me Believe- great song about whether one's love is true or not.... i love the lyric "but it's hard to start a fire without a spark (5 stars)

5) Love's the Only House- this song will draw a strong connection to your heart. The song is spectacular and speaks the truth... love is TRULY the only house big enough for all the world's pain. The video to this song is very touching as well. Go Martina! (5 stars)

6) There You Are- a perfect wedding song... She hold the "are" note for at least 12+ seconds near the end. (5 stars) If you hear this song LIVE, she holds the note 15 seconds!!!! (so LIVE this song will be 6 stars/5 stars!!!!)

7) It's My Time- the first song that I ever heard Martina perform live in the AMA awards... she rocked the house down with this song... She also holds a 10 second note at this song. Love that range of hers. (5 stars)

8) I Ain't Goin' Nowhere- I like this song and its message about being there for a significant other. (5 stars)

9) Anything and Everything- the lyrics and Martina's gentle vocal performance on this song are perfection. (5 stars)

10)From the Ashes- another standout song on this album. She holds some high notes in this one too. (5 stars)

11) Goodbye- a solid performance, I llike how Martina goes lower and softer in some parts of the song. (4 stars)

12) This Uncivil War- the best song on the album!!!! AMAZING!!!! Written by Gretchen, the writer of Martina's career hit "Indepedence Day." A very emotional song, which defines the title of the album. The ending is a real treat as well. (6 stars!)

This album is definitely worth purchasing!!! It helps complete my collection of Martina's albums
