I am a latecomer to the works of Chopin, unqualified to comment on Dinu Lipatti's technique and interpretation, but this recording gives an interesting framework to explore the waltzes. They are numbered 1 through 14 in order of opus publication, but on this disc Lipatti shuffles them to form a cycle of his own devising. There are four waltzes in the key of A flat and it seems one challenge was to space them across the recital. Contrast this to Alexandre Thaurad's CD where he clumps like-key waltzes into groups. (He also adds five more posthumous works.)

Most of Chopin's waltzes start on the dominant, meaning either the fifth note of the home key (the tonic, the I), or a dominant seventh chord (V7) which leads to the tonic. Lipatti uses this feature to string together his cycle. If, for instance, there were a waltz that ended on a C natural it could easily bring us to Waltz No 4, which starts on an insistent C7 chord before rising to the home key of F major. I will use this as the starting point for tracing the harmonic relationships of the tracks on this CD.

Track 1: Waltz No 4 in F, "Grande Valse brillante" - as noted starts on the V7 and finishes on F in octaves.

Track 2: No 5 in A flat - begins on a trilling dominant Eb, but the note it trills up to is an F (which ended the previous track). Finishes with a parting shot, a turn in the bass ending on Ab.

Track 3: No 6 in D flat, "Minute Waltz" - starts on Ab; the contour of the opening phrase echoes the gesture of the previous parting shot as well. Ends in Db.

Track 4: No 9 in A flat - has two pick up notes then hits a Db on the downbeat of the first measure. The right hand ends on the Ab above middle C.

Track 5: No 7 in C sharp minor - starts on a G sharp above middle C, which is the same black key (enharmonic equivalent) of the previous Ab. Ends in C# minor.

Track 6: No 11 in G flat - starts with a pick-up turn then hits the downbeat with a Db (enharmonic C#). Ends on a Gb in the treble clef.

Track 7: No 10 in B minor - starts quietly on the same note, an F# (enharmonic Gb). Ends with a soft B in the bass clef.

Track 8: No 14 in E minor - first note is the exact same B in the bass. Ends in E minor.

Track 9: No 3 in A minor - starts on an E in the bass melody. Ends in A minor; keep in mind that minor third of this key is a C natural -- you can hear it in the melody of the third to last measure.

Track 10: No 8 in A flat - this is a side-stepping change of keys, but there is an harmonic link to the previous waltz. Instead of starting on the dominant, this one begins on the major third -- C natural.

Track 11: No 12 in F minor - starts on the dominant -- C again. Toggle back and forth between tracks 10 and 11 and you will hear that these two waltzes start on the exact same pitch. Instead of ending in F minor this waltz closes in the relative major of Ab. The last three notes are a rise and fall, Bb-C-Ab.

Track 12: No 13 in D flat - there is a leading note before the dominant. The first three notes (Bb-Ab-F) fall and rise in a mirroring gesture to the final phrase of the previous. Ends quietly in Db.

Track 13: No 1 in E flat, "Valse brillante" - another side-stepping key change but there is a connection. If you toggle between tracks 12 and 13 you will hear the same initial note, a Bb -- quietly in the former, boldly here. Finishes resoundingly in the tonic Eb.

Track 14: No 2 in A flat, "Grande Valse brillante" - introduction in the dominant chord, Eb7. Closes in Ab. From here you could loop around to the beginning of the cycle again, linking the major third (C natural) to the V7 that starts the F major waltz
