Coming from a listener with a broad scope of musical preferences, Blues has always been a multi-faceted genre which can be broken down into the categories:Soulful Blues, Drinking Blues and Guitar Blues. "B.B King - Live At The Regal" is one of those recordings that just happens to capture all three.

This recording is dear to my heart as I can remember far back as first or second grade when my grandmother (God Bless) used to play this on 8-track. She used to love herself some Riley "Blues Brother" King. This recording ALWAYS seemed to be in the player when my cousins and I would come over to visit and rest assured, You WILL hear it before you left to go home.

At that time, Being the young naive kid that I was, I remember saying that I hated it and that it was old folks music. All grown up now, In an age where real music is practically unheard of in terms of what these young artists of today release on CDs, I have a newfound respect for real stuff like this. So instead of sitting around burning your brain cells trying to understand what this new generation is calling itself creating, You have decided to come to one of the first sources for good old fasioned real music....The Blues.

In my opinion, "BB King Live At The Regal" is one of Mr. King's best recordings and with myself not being a big fan of live albums, This is one of those rare live pieces that captures the essence of what a live recording should sound like. Maybe not so much in terms of the musicianship but the overall performance of those involved. The arrangements were put together nicely & the musicians were all in a very tight vibe on this album and whoever was on the mixing board did an excellent job of capturing this essence. BB's pickin' and crooning mixed with the superb playing by the band make this a wonderful place to start for the blues or BB King enthusiast. 

It sounds as if it was made in a tasteful nightclub full of grown people who wanted to hear good music while having a good time. The ladies were screaming and the gentlemen were cheering and BB was playing at his best. The only gripe I have about this disc is that it is very short; which was typical considering the age and time that it was made but still essential and a solid lesson for anyone interested in Blues (especially Blues Guitar). I recommend getting this and BB's "Live In Cook County Jail". They both are live albums and both have some of the same songs on them but they were done in a different way and should still be heard.

Good choice if you get this one.  
