Before I review this classic Rolling Stones album, I just want to point out that Juke Box Hero and whirligig are one in the same person. A troll who likes to trash great music and praise Dire Straits(who are a good band but nit the greatest) and Green Day. I say CUT THE SHENANIGANS!
Now that is off my chest, back to the review!
The Rolling Stones' second album to be released on their own label fittingly called Rolling Stones Records, which was distributed by Atlantic at the time(now Virgin/Capitol), entitled Exile on Main Street was released in May of 1972. 
The album was the band's only double studio album but is one of rock's greatest double studio albums in history and ranks up there with other classic 2-record sets like The Wall, Quadrophenia, The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway and Tommy among others. 
Before guitarist Keith Richards' heroin addiction took over for some time in the mid-1970s, he was what the late producer Jimmy Miller called a workhorse. 
The album was recorded at Keith's home in France and at Olympic Studios in London and Muscle Shoals in Alabama and in Los Angeles. 
Keith's music and frontman Mick Jagger's lyric writing was arguably at its peak on Exile on Main Street. 
Songs like the opening rocker Rocks Off, the 50s sounding rocker Rip This Joint, the album's hit Tumbling Dice, the country-ish Sweet Virginia, Keith's classic rocker Happy(and it is his most famous track which he sang), the slow-ish Soul Survivor, the fast-paced blues rocker All Down the Line and the soul sounding Shine a Light are classics which sound like they could have been recorded yesterday. 
Ventilator Blues was another highlight as it was the only song that Mick and Keith wrote was co-written by guitarist Mick Taylor whom just tore the place up from 1969-74(his solos just rocked from 1969-74). 
Exile on Main Street was The Rolling Stones' second consecutive #1 album and another million seller. 
The tour in support of the album saw the band getting bigger and bigger. Almost 35 years on, this album is still a classic!
This album is hugely recommended
