Superior to the first Steppenwolf album in many ways, and including a song that tops even 'Born To Be Wild' itself, 'Magic Carpet Ride', is as essential as the group's first album, even to the casual rock fan.

It opens with 'Faster Than The Speed Of Life', a perfect blend of Steppenwolfish hard rock & Airplanesque psychedelic rock (like 'She Has Funny Cars').
'Tighten Up Your Wing' is an upbeat, bluesy track, that bounces well along, before being replaced with 'None Of Your Doing', a Steppenwolf-classic, that shifts gear between verse & chorus.
'Spiritual Fantasy' is one of the strangest creations on the album, strangely touching, though appaling at first. But given a second chance, it comes across as one of the best tracks on the album.
The marihuana-anthem 'Don't Step On The Grass, Sam' is pure heavy Steppenwolf, a timeless classic, that crunches slowly, but steadily along.
'28' is a great rock song with just a hint of psychedelia in the melody. A neat little rocker that is followed by the ultimate psychedelic dance track.
'Magic Carpet Ride' is simply Steppenwolf's best song ever, a fantastic blend of rhytm, melody & vision, that is worth the price of all Steppenwolf's classic albums on its own. It was also the only of their singles to almost replicate 'Born To Be Wild's US #2 placing, when it shot to #3 on the US chart.
'Disappointment Number' is almost that, but then not again. It is an odd ode to/parody of old blues, complete with bird sounds in the background, as if it's an old blues singer sitting out in the open.
'Lost And Found By Trial And Error' has a great tune, and rocks away well, as does 'Hodge, Podge, Strained Through A Leslie' and 'Resurrection'. Both employ the classic Steppenwolf sound in a great rocking way, to become, if not classics, then at least Steppenwolf-standards.
The album closes with 'Reflections' a weird song, that seems like somebody trying to be visionary, before you realize that that is just what he is. Just in a very peculiar way.

The album has some, if not weak, then not too powerful spots, but generally it is a more than worthy follow-up to the first Steppenwolf album, with a great blend of the band's traditional hard rock and a form of psychedelia that suits them perfectly. Even the least interesting tracks rock nicely, & no-one should have anything to complain about here..
