I discovered Seal the same way that most people did: through his utterly beautiful song "Kiss From A Rose".  I heard it on the radio one day, and played it constantly for months after that until I finally decided to purchase the album the song was from.  As it happens, the song is from Seal's most revered album, his multi-platinum 1994 self-titled album.  (This is not to be confused with his other self-titled album, his debut, released in 1991.)  I didn't know what to expect when I bought the album, having heard only one song from it, but months after purchasing it I'm glad I made the gamble.

I think that the sub-genre which best classifies SEAL is urban.  Urban music, according to All Music Guide, is smooth and polished, often romantic, sometimes uptempo and funky, and features soulful vocals.  SEAL has all of this and more.  It has techno beats, but they're not as overwhelming as one might expect.  They blend together with peaceful, occasionally ethereal guitars and Seal's incredibly soothing singing.  This is, no doubt, stylish music, but first and foremost it's a collection of warm, encouraging songs penned by a very talented musician.  There's nothing that comes close to being a bad song here; there's not even a slightly weak composition.  Thus it's a little harder to pick highlights than usual.  Some highlights include the strong opening track, "Bring It On"; the emotional hit "Prayer For The Dying"; the shimmering "Dreaming In Metaphors"; the upbeat "Newborn Friend"; and, needless to say, the absolutely wonderful "Kiss From A Rose".  The closing track, "Bring It On (Reprise)" is another beautiful song, but "Kiss From A Rose" is possibly the most lovely song I've ever heard.  Listening to it in the warmth of one's home during a snowy December afternoon is an incredibly powerful experience.

The message of the album, if there is one, is "Keep on going - life is beautiful!"  It could fail under any other popular artist, but Seal succeeds marvelously.  This is some of the most heartfelt, inspirational singing I've ever heard.  There's a delightful optimism in Seal's singing that sounds strong rather than naiive.  It's hard to feel down after listening to such an uplifting album as this.  Seal is certainly one of the most talented musicians of R&B (or rock - you decide).  These songs have clear, strong messages, warm, inspirational lyrics, heartfelt, soothing singing, danceable beats, and a whole lot of emotion.

Once you've heard "Kiss From A Rose", I guarantee you'll want to pick up the album.  If you're already thinking of doing so, then I encourage you to go forward and buy it; you won't regret it.  It's become one of my favorite albums.  When you're feeling disillusioned or depressed with the state of your life or just life in general, look no further than SEAL to make you cherish it once again.
