What's more to say about what may be the best "rock" album ever (especially if you consider the "My Kingdom" EP to be the second disc in a two disc set)?  The most emotionally wide-ranging album from one of the best bands ever.  Who else has ever made music like FSOL?  The Beatles and Fripp&Crimson are the only possible contenders.  I've never heard anything that does a better job of juxtaposing the terrifying and the unbearably beautiful.  If I could pinpoint the one disinguishing feature of all FSOL/AA releases, it would be (as a line in "The Isness" goes) "...[a longing for] inexhaustible ecstasy." It's all the more poignant on this album because of its being interwoven with themes of terror, paranoia and a sense of unrecoverable loss of something without which life isn't worth living.  It sounds hokey, but just opening up the booklet while listening to "Her Face Forms in Summertime" and reading the scrawled message "things are getting f*&ked up round here" makes my eyes a little watery.  My CD developed a 2 second glitch and I just ordered another one--this is so incredible that nothing less than perfection will do.  

Just a few points of note: if you're wondering why you spent all that money on your two channel stereo and you haven't heard this album yet, pick it up and turn it up.  I've heard recordings with more bottom end and slam, but none with more depth, nuance and musicality.  I've also found that one of the true tests of a Masterpiece is whether it's possible to really enjoy listening to anything else after its over.  Play Coltrane's "Ascension," Beethoven's String Quartet in A Minor Op. 132, or Bruckner's Ninth and see what I mean.  I played Dead Cities last night and everything to which  I tried to listen sounded hopelessly trivial afterwards.  In the early 80s, a lot of my friends used to speak of The Clash as "the only band that mattered."  At the time, I didn't think any band had mattered all that much since '72.  To my now-much-older ears, FSOL fits that description more accurately than any band to the last 35 years, and this is probably their best work (every single one of them is a desert island disc, however).  One of the very few utterly timeless classics of modern music, and a record that belongs in the collection of anyone with ears.

