It was my full belief that the next time we would hear from Buju Banton on an album would be on the now 2 years anticipated `Rasta Got Soul' album. The album which has still yet to arrive (and may never) was said to be along Buju's best and might actually rival his seminal classic `Til Shiloh. He even tipped his hand 2 years ago by releasing the album's first single, the `magical' Magic City. So the world was waiting to see just how much Soul the album had.

However. Between then and now Buju has been going through so many events that this album, Too Bad, almost seems like a smack in the face to his critics. Forever, it seems that he is still living in the `Boom Bye Bye Curse', and having some legal matters which prevented him traveling, he apparently has been angered by all the unwanted attention and the result is Too Bad. The album has a severe kick to it, it can actually sit not too far away from his `stablemate' Assassin's Infiltrate from `05, in terms of style.

The attraction here is actually the subject of  `confusion'. While we were waiting for a massive roots album to come down the pipe, Buju hasn't made a pure dancehall album in a very very long time. Thus, the DJ who was once the dancehall's main attraction stepping back into the fray isn't at all a bad thing. So fans who sit longing for the days of Stamina Daddy and Batty Rider are the one's who'll be happy and I can fit into that camp as well! But at the same time, Buju's concentration for the last decade or so has been the roots, so now it is there where he will ultimately excel. However, with the current trend in dancehall to revive older riddims, you may find yourself feeling like 1991 all over again.

The best tune here is probably  the hard hard `Til It Bend. Til it Bend is serious serious rudey dancehall. The song might sound like the rest to the untrained ear, but I guarantee that is the song most Jamaican will pull up, Til it Bend is nice! Also check the wicked wicked Nothing, Who Have It?, the ultra clever Better Day and the nice Hey Boy over the Petty Thief riddim.

However, my second favorite song here I would have to say would be the combination Don & Dupes with underrated dancehall singer Pinchers who has been making a very very nice return to the scene recently, largely due to his connection with Madhouse head, Dave Kelly. Buju makes an attempt (for some reason) at the useless Wipeout riddim on Me & Unu and actually makes it work a little. Also check when things slow down on nice tunes such as Driver, which is easily one of the best tunes on the album.

Overall, the thought alone, Buju doing another dancehall album may have some salivating and some wondering where the roots is, this one may appeal to both group of hardcore fans. While there is nothing here that I would call definitive roots reggae, this album has such an old school vibes to it that anyone who has ever been a fan of Buju's will find something they like. I would have like to have seen Buju have at least one Lenky riddim on the album, a Wayne Wonder combination (although Pinchers subs just fine) and definitely the massive song Beauty Queen from the Twice Again riddim would have fit just fine here, but nevertheless, what you do have: High quality dancehall from one of the greatest architects of that skill is just fine and Too Bad, over both what Beenie and Baby Cham have done, is the best pure dancehall album of 2006 to date, and a boomshot in the arm for the genre
