I ordered mine from here (Amazon Marketplace) a couple weeks ago, and I'm a very happy camper. This is one of the best online purchases I've made in a long, long time! First of all, there are songs I've never heard before, so by owning this compilation, it helps me get to know the band's material, or Siobhan's own solo stuff much better. All the songs are very well-written and catchy. Thanks to my best friend, he drew me toward's SS's music back in the 90's with the "HORMONALLY YOURS" CD. SS's music was always something I pushed to the "back burner" because I didn't know what to make of it. But in the past 2 years, I've focused on the new material from the "Shakespears Sister #3" album...and it blew me away! Siobhan is a true musical genius!

"I DON'T CARE" seems to be a differnt version. It's much brighter & fresher-sounding than the album version. Wow!
"HELLO (TURN YOUR RADIO ON) is my favorite "SS" song of all time & also appears to be a different version. Just hearing the first notes from it, my eyes got all teary. It's just the way I am, regarding this song. The Clock ticking at the end reminds me of a heartbeat or something. Dark songs like this draw me near. LOL The compilation is missing one song "BITTER PILL". I wanted & hoped for this song to be released on the CD, but unfortunately it didn't make it. Awwww!

The liner notes booklet is packed with all lyrics, cool photos and a fine page of background regarding the recordings of their albums. Siobhan is one cool gal! I love the front & back artwork, for it is both amusing, colorful & dramatic. I'm a sucker for dramatic stuff like this. Hopefully, Siobhan will continue recording lots of new material, using the "Shakespears Sister" title. I despise the crap we hear on the radio nowadays. Hopefully now that SF has released this package, the music will get more airplay. I like the nostalgic aspect of music from a decade ago, because it reminds us of how the music industry used to be non-commercial and fun. Yes...it's too bad that Siobhan and Marcella broke up, because their 2 uniquely different voices complimented one another. There hasn't been a duo like them since!

My Thoughts on the DVD...
I love it! The first & only video clip I've ever seen from "SS" is "STAY". Totaly blew me away since the first time I saw it. I've always loved seeing Siobhan as "Death", in her starry crown & black "Glitzy" outfit. She makes the perfect female version of "Death". I could never understand the video until now, because I never had the chance to see the entire thing on TV. The other videos are equally great and draw me closer each time.
I appreciate the "Chaptered" Menu for the videos. At least I know what's from where. The DVD was put together very well, and is packed with great stuff.

Fortunately, my DVD player on the Computer and the TV can play this All-Region PAL DVD. I haven't experienced any difficulties (skipping tracks or anything). It all plays fine. Actually, when i purchased this Item online, the item description said "NTSC Format (USA & CANADA)...so that's why I bought it. It may not apply to everyone's purchase, though.

DISC ONE (CD):
01- You're History
02- Heroine
03- Break My Heart (You Really)
04- Dirty Mind
05- Waiting
06- Goodbye Cruel World
07- Stay
08- I Don't Care
09- Hello (Turn Your Radio On)
10- I Can Drive
11- Excuse Me John
12- Can U Wait That Long?
13- Do I Scare You?
14- White Rabbit
15- Was It Something I Said?

DISC TWO (DVD):
01- Break My Heart (You Really)
02- Heroine
03- Run Silent, Run Deep
04- You're History
05- Dirty Mind (Remix)
06- The Russian Film (Featuring Dirty Mind & Heroine Live in Leningrad 1988)
07- Goodbye Cruel World
08- Stay
09- I Don't Care
10- Catwoman (Live)
11- My 16th Apology (Edit)
12- Hello (Turn Your Radio On)
13- I Can Drive

Additional Features/Info:
- Biography (Same as on 1st page of Linernotes booklet)
- Photo Gallery With Audio (Music)
- Credits (for Videos)
- CD Total Playing Time (62:03)

If you're an "SS" fan, this item is a MUST HAVE! Regardless the price, it's definitely worth owning! Thank You, Amazon, for making this item available through your Marketplace
