The previous review has a few inaccuracies I thought I'd correct. First off, the beats on all of Atmosphere's albums, including this one, are produced and created by Ant, not DJ Abilities. Ant does not perform live, and so Slug often used to perform with DJ Abilities (and others). This may change in the next album as Atmosphere now includes a band soon to tour, but it's extermely likely Ant will be included in the production.

Slug has never been 1/3 of Atmosphere, he has and always will be the main driving force and only consistent member of the group. Even when Spawn was a member of Atmosphere, Slug was still clearly the leader and brains beyond the operation, as evidenced by the tracks on Overcast!, all of which were dominated by Slug.

Yes, this album is quite different from the newer stuff, and represents a critical moment in Atmosphere's evolution. Of course, anyone can listen to it. Even those silly "fan boys." It's a ridiculous notion to suggest that because something has changed, people won't like earlier incantations of the same group. It's that elitist old school b.s. and it's annoying. Some may not like it, but most hip-hop fans will probably enjoy it.  

What makes this album so interesting is how raw it is, and, as Slug says in the liner notes, how it's representative of his transformation as an MC. Recorded between Overcast! and Lucy Ford, you can witness Slug move from being a whitty, well-versed thug to something deeper and more innovative. Both elements are present. "The Abusing of the Rib" is one of the more evolved tracks on the album, while "@ It Again" is about sleeping with all sorts of girls in the Twin Cities, including yours of course. Note that I say "evolved" not in the sense that one song is better than another, but rather more representative of Slug's later work (Lucy Ford). 

This album represents a critical moment in the history of what I believe is the best hip hop group (individual) out there. While it doesn't have the catchiest melodies (the beats are great, just not catchy), it has some amazing rhymes and showcases Slug's ability to flow quickly and rap prolifically. Check it out
