This is part 2 of a set titled SAY IT RIGHT. The CD has a blue and white style vs. the part 1 that has a yellow and white style on disc and cover. Also in a slim-line jewel case with the title track, non-album track, but an added dance remix plus video. If you enjoyed the first 2-track CD then this is a must. Dance lovers will definitely find this to be a totally spectacular production.

SAY IT RIGHT [Radio Edit] has the catchy dance beats, nice vocals, excellent drums, and chorus. The lyrics are fun to sing along and strong in meaning. Apparently, it's about not giving a lover power to control, destroy, or make you loose sleep. The melody has great rhythm, chorus, dance styles, and energetic beats. "You don't mean nothing at all to me" is repeated showing a strong message that life doesn't end with someone who isn't right. 

WHAT I WANTED brings Nelly to a slower tempo displaying depth of emotion. It's a slow ballad with true sincerity and humility. It's about going for something you wanted but never got. The outcome doesn't matter because the reality is you gave it your all. As she sings about her dream and what she wanted it's apparent love can be hard to let go yet comforting to do so. The melody is soothing, pleasant in sound, and refreshing for the soul. 

SAY IT RIGHT [Peter Rauhofer Remix Part 1] is a hot club remix sure to get you dancing off your feet. The song takes a dive to faster paced trance like effects, different introduction, pumping jamming dance styles with techno flairs, up and down tempos as well as plenty of percussion and synthesizers. Straying from the original song the vocals are still vastly heard yet filled with echoes, swirls of sounds, and much club ambiance. It's dreamy, fantasy filled, and definitely highly paced for the dance floor. If anything is certain it is this: The Remix in this CD is much better than many of her past singles. There is true DJ styles incorporation more instrumentations, effects, and vast production much more geared to club hoppers and dance fans. Quite sticky, infectious, and groove like this remix will get you dancing up a storm feeling like wanting to shake your body non-stop. Club lovers don't pass this out. Nelly's vocals are echoed often and electronic-a effects are vastly hard. 

SAY IT RIGHT VIDEO [Enhanced CD] is the video many have already seen as Timbaland and Nelly dance face to face and get very close as the message behind the music is reinforced. This is an excellent video with much dance styles, highly energetic beats, and flairs for control and getting the message across.

Overall, from all of Nelly's singles I find this to be on the top of my favorite. The combination of 2 highly emotional yet different songs plus a dance track and video makes this remarkable. Definitely buy this if you are a Nelly fan, club hopper, or a lover of music to enjoy for the depth of emotion, different styles displayed, and the themes. It's definitely a top sensation. Before it sells out be sure to buy it. The part 1 is also an excellent addition for those days you don't want to listen to the remix. This is highly recommended for sure!
