This is a difficult album to review. People either embrace it or pass it off as an overproduced, overblown waste of their time. However, I can say that this is my favorite Oasis album. Why? That's a very good question...maybe because Be Here Now was my introduction to Oasis, and I could tell that this band had a lot to offer, even through the drug-addled, overproduced songs that seemed to last forever. Each one is very catchy and has an overall feel-good quality to it, two characteristics of most Oasis songs. 

It's no use comparing Be Here Now to Morning Glory or Def. Maybe, because it's in a whole other ballpark. This is Oasis going totally over the top and pushing their music to the limit. No doubt that all the coke helped with that. It's my firm belief that Morning Glory and Def. Maybe were and still are great albums in their own rights. Be Here Now is just something else, you either love it or hate it. It has it's own little Oasis category. I can see why it never really lived up to its two famous predecessors.

There are some valid complaints about this album, though. One, it is very very overproduced, filled to the top with snarling buzzing guitars and who knows what else. Unfortunately, this makes it hard to listen to with earphones for very long. Two, the songs are astonishingly long at times. All Around the World, while an excellent song, clocks in at around 9:20. I believe that the shortest song is I Hope, I Think, I Know, coming in at 4:23. So you know you're in for a long, wild ride. 

However, only Oasis could pull this off - making ridiculously long songs that are almost ear-numbing to listen to - and every minute is made enjoyable. All the arrogance, coke, and swagger in these songs is perhaps what makes it so appealing to some people. And of course, there's that small note on the upper left-hand corner of pages 7 and 8 in the booklet that proclaims : "The Beatles are quite good, but Oasis is much better."

And so a resounding yes to all of these: overproduced, arrogant, drug-induced, staggering, amazing, excellent. I don't care about the negative things, though, because that's what makes Be Here Now a sucess in its own right. 



