About the Band:
Dead Can Dance is considered the seminal example of the ethereal or heavenly voices genre.  In fact, the name of the label, 4AD, which carried many of the 1990s DCD releases, is sometimes also used to describe this genre of music, which is a fusion of subtle electronics, vocals, drums, world music, and a near limitless count of instruments.  Brendan Perry sometimes has been described as a gothic Frank Sinatra.  Lisa Gerrard's enchanting vocals are often sung in a language only known to Lisa.  I count myself among the many that hold these two musicians in the highest esteem.

About the Album:
Compared to more recent albums that are loaded with bonus tracks, the 50-minutes of Into the Labyrinth would seem short, if it weren't for the fact that I like to listen to this album over and over again.  I count this album as one of my all time favorites, and certainly my most prized Dead Can Dance CD.

One of the nicest things about this album is that it features nearly equal amounts of both Lisa's and Brendan's ghostly vocals.  On some tracks they accompany each other, while others feature only one of the artist's chilling or mystical sounding vocals.  Simply put, this is beautiful music to relax to.  I honestly give this album my highest recommendations!

Two tracks I'd recommend sampling: "Towards the Within" (featuring Lisa's vox w/ Brendan backing) and "Tell Me About the Forest" (featuring Brendan's vox).  I believe they best represent the range of songs you can expect with this album.  Please note that while all the tracks feature vocals, the lyrics for only those sung in English are included in the liner notes.

Similar Artists:
Chances are if you aren't yet familiar with Dead Can Dance, that you've not yet discovered some of these other bands, but I highly recommend them as well: Das Zeichen, Impressions of Winter, Love is Colder Than Death, Qntal, Corvus Corax, or Helium Vola.  There is a rather large (and somewhat underappreciated) range of artists still producing heavenly voices music that is similar in quality to Dead Can Dance.  Please check some of them out as well.
