I consider this to be one of the finest live Coltrane recordings out there.  It was also one of the first Coltrane albums I picked up, and it was a fantastic gateway to some of his more abstract live recordings on followup releases like LIVE AT THE VILLAGE VANGUARD AGAIN and LIVE IN JAPAN.  This is much more similar to AFRO BLUE IMPRESSIONS which is another overlooked release.  By this point in time, Trane had already done some work with Eric Dolphy and his playing was growing in a much more abstract direction as we would hear on A LOVE SUPREME just one year later.

One of the reasons why this disc is overlooked is because Elvin Jones is replaced by Roy Haynes, while Jones was serving some jail time.  The absence of Jones is noticeable but I still think this is worthy of five stars.  The first 3 tracks are from the Newport Jazz Festival and in addition to Haynes and Trane, we have the remaining quartet members, McCoy Tyner (piano) and Jimmy Garrison (bass).  Tyner is especially amazing on 'My Favorite Things' which I consider the best version of that piece in Trane's entire catalogue.  I consider it to be a bridge to some of his later recordings.  This is because we get Trane's two sides.  First of all there is great tone and lyricism in the first part of the piece.  However, the song still goes on for 17 minutes and the interplay between Tyner and Haynes for much of it is amazing. 

Rounding out the performance is Billy Eckstine's 'I Want to Talk About You' with a mesmerizing credenza which is a staple of Trane's technique, followed by a 15 minute version of 'Impressions.'  Again we hear Trane's two sides.  On one hand we hear where he is COMING from. which is the confines of other jazz gods like Miles Davis and Thelonius Monk.  On the the other hand we can see where he is GOING, which is a much more abstract/free-jazz approach.  Once you can begin to understand Trane's more abstract side, you will find later recordings less challenging, such as INTERSTELLAR SPACE, MEDITATIONS, or A LOVE SUPREME.  

In addition to the three Newport recordings, there is an extra track from November of 1961 from the Village Vanguard.  'Chasin' Another Trane' is played by Haynes and Trane as well as Dolphy on alto sax and Reggie Workman on bass.  The presence of Dolphy and the removal of piano makes this the most avant-garde piece on the record, almost reminiscent of early Ornette Coleman.  

Coltrane really cooks on this record, and the sound quality is also pretty decent.  It's not as crystal clear as his Carnegie Hall concert with Monk, but nevertheless, I consider it a great place to start for Trane fans who are reluctant to embrace his later music.   
