Dj Shadow is in my honest opinion one of the most overlooked artists in music today. Threading the thin line between commercial and underground, and finding his niche somewhere in between (as UNKLE says, the middle ground between light and shadow) DJ Shadow continues to impress with every release he puts forth. I was fortunate enough to pick this album up right after its release, and actually purchased it before I bought Endtroducing, which is by far DJ Shadow's best album, and one of the best albums ever made. By sampling elements from just about anywhere Shadow combines elements from our pop culture to create mini-movies of his songs which few artists can touch in terms of sheer production value, and the emotional effect that is created while listening to his music. I am actually glad I bought this album before Endtroducing as it has given me the time to truly appreciate this album for what it is; a work of art, and a continual growing of Shadow's talents. Had I bought Endtroducing before this and writtwn a review I'm sure I would have garnered it with a 4 star review, but that is simply not the case here. While Endtroducing is always going to be leaques above and beyond this album, Josh Davis has found a way here to go above and beyond what should be expected of an album, and given us an album that I'm sure years from now I will still find elements in it that will grow even more on me with time. Best enjoyed while driving or relaxing at home (possibly with a little mary in tow, if you know what I mean), the songs fluctuate with peaks and valleys of highs and lows, and the beats are flawless, especially when compared to a lot of the mainstream garbage that is put out in the record industry on a regular basis. See the thing is that Shadow bases his music upon how he feels, and artists that do this correctly achieve an emotional reaction from their music that the true artists of our world truly achieve. Radiohead for example has a way of doing this, and it is not surprising then that one of DJ Shadows favorite artists is Radiohead, they both fuse these elements into their music, and achieve monumental status in my opinion. The package design is equally well done as well showing an artists eye for presentation, and a graffiti influenced design to the overall package. If you enjoy this album then I highly recommend any of Shadows works: Endtroducing, Preemptive Strike, The Private Press, and In Tune and On Time, which is a live set recorded in support of this album. UNKLE is also a well thought out album which bridges the gap between hip-hop, rock and techno, with guest appearences by Mike D of the Beastie Boys, Thom Yorke from Radiohead, and others from throughout the music industry. If you've never heard of DJ Shadow before, then I must say that you are missing out, if you are at all interested in underground music, do yourself a favor and pick up any of Shadow's albums or collaborations, I guarantee you will extremely impressed, as with any good album the songs have a way of growing on you over time. Peace out
