I admit that I'm far from an expert on digital cameras. I did take over 32,000 photographs with 35mm cameras for over 20 years.

I purchased a 510 PowerShot in July of 2005. It wasn't too long before the zoom on the cameras lens wouldn't work. I contacted Canon over this and can you believe this company had the audacity to charge ME for shipping THEIR faulty camera back to them. I can understand them saying, 'we'll charge you at first, BUT once we establish that the fault is due to us, we'll then reimburse you back.'

I enclosed a type written letter with the camera asking that Canon contact me when they received my camera (in the mail) and I also asked that they contact me when it was being shipped back. (I also emailed them the same request). Neither of my wishes was ever fulfilled on Canon's behalf.

That in itself was enough for me and I've been bitter about that ever since. I've also told every person that I've met who wanted to buy a digital camera about this incident. I'm pleased to say, I've steered most away from this company.

What else can I say about this camera:

This camera is slow at times after its taken a picture. I've missed out on some good shots due to this.

It eats batteries like there's no tomorrow so one MUST have rechargeable AA's to even make this camera worth its while.

I've not used other digital cameras so maybe they are all this way but if I take a 3 minute movie (with this camera) in my home during the day and go outside, most things outside are VERY WHITE. Almost like looking at an infra red photograph.

When filming outside, when one goes inside during the day, everything is dark. Like I said, maybe all digital cameras are this way?

I wouldn't recommend this camera or anything that Canon makes if you want my personal opinion. Think about that. You have to pay the shipping for a camera that's barely a few months old and still UNDER warranty. That's disgusting, that's all I have to say.

There should be a ZERO for this, not a 1 star
