I have been working with this camera for about a year now, for product shots online, and while sometimes it takes great pics, many times the flash pops and whites out, or it goes off and you get a black picture. I take pictures of jewelry, and if I try to shoot a piece with green and blue coloration, the color is not accurate. Purple is another color this camera does not accurately pic up. While you can fiddle with 4 different picture taking settings, in all different modes, you'll never get the same picture twice, even saving the setting. The light has to be just so, to get a good shot. When it shoots clearly, it can take fabulous pictures, but often, pics are blurred as many others have said, when they actually come out. My old camera, the DSC P71 3.2 Megapixel is MUCH better, colors are accurate always, shooting is flawless and foolproof every time, AND the greatest feature is re-sizing your picture and trimming right on the camera before uploading. This feature is completely MISSING from the DSC P200, which was the biggest disappointment, as I figured it would be a given I didn't have to ask about when purchasing. Why would Sony eliminate this great function? Had I know that when the salesman at the large New York City Photo store told me this was the camera I dreamed of, I would not have bought it. I prefer also to use the rechargable AA batteries instead of the Lithium battery, which is super hard to load, and charging this camera is a nightmare with the charger it comes with. It is like a puzzle trying to get the charger inserted at just the right angle. Every time it takes me several minutes, and finding a good little wall charger for it is also a problem. 
I recently took this camera on vacation to take pics and get footage for burning to DVD. Sound quality is good, but video quality can be choppy, and the monitor did not let me even see that my setting was overexposed, so all my footage is somewhat overexposed for the entire trips shootings I made. The monitor, while big, does not show you always what you are shooting, whether a still, or movie picture. Overall, I would not recommend this camera and I actually bought a USED second of my old camera, and got my original repaired, because this one doesn't compare. This camera is a bit too complicated and not very user friendly. Even after using all this time, I STILL am not sure what I am going to get when I use this camera. I'd say the worst features to be aware of are for someone who needs accurate color, this camera clearly has trouble showing blue/green shades, and purples accurately, you can never show these colors are they are in life with this camera, and the lack of the "trimming" resizing feature, what was Sony thinking? Next time, I am trying something other than Sony Cybershot unless I hear they have gone back to making a great straightforward, uncomplicated easy to point and shoot camera. This one is definitely NOT
