My title says it all - I was really disappointed with this camera, but before I get into the specifics as to why, I must mention a few things first.  This was my third camera in the Exilim line - prior to purchasing Z850 I have owned Z60, as well as Z600.  Both were great cameras.  I mean, what's not to like?  Clean, sexy look; easy to use; great picture quality.  But having to work for Kodak in the past, I decided that I want to get more involved with the world of digital photography and post processing, and in order to do that I needed something with a little more manual control, so I sold my Z600, and got a Z850 instead.  Big mistake!  I ordered it directly from Amazon, and it was a brand new camera.  Right of the bat I got a defective unit!  The problem - it was very inconsistent at taking sharp pictures, especially close-ups.  The shots were blurry for the most part, and the colors were a bit off as well.  How is that for quality and reliability?!  But I thought to myself, "it's okay, it happens", so I returned it back to Amazon (thanks to their great return policy), and got myself another one, this time from TechToysForLess (it was a lot cheaper comparing to Amazon).  One thing to be aware of - TechToysForLess sells what it's called "grey market" cameras.  I knew about it ahead of time, but someone might not, and then be unpleasantly surprised.  For those who don't know what it is - the "grey market" refers to the flow of new goods through distribution channels other than those authorized or intended by the manufacturer.  Only new products fall under the legal, accepted definition of grey market.  Grey market goods are being sold outside of normal distribution channels by companies which may have no relationship with the producer of the goods.  Frequently this form of parallel import occurs when the price of an item is significantly higher in one country than another. This situation commonly occurs with cigarettes and electronic equipment, such as cameras.   Entrepreneurs buy the product where it is available cheaply, often at retail but sometimes at wholesale, import it legally to the target market and sell it at a price which provides a profit but which is below the normal market price there.  So, the product is legal, it's new, and it's cheap.  BUT... In some instances, there could be minor differences between the "authorized" product, and the "grey market" one.  For example, a "grey" Z850 doesn't have an eBay mode, but offers an "Auction" mode instead.  It's a bit different with respect to settings.  Also, there is no full blown manual in the box, but rather a short "how to" instruction in various languages.  However, the full manual can be found on a CD-ROM.  Another difference, and that's actually a plus I think, is that it comes with a European power adapter, whereas American sold models don't have that.  The biggest concern with "grey market" products, however, is that in some cases manufacturer will refuse to honor the warranty, so you have to be aware of that, and check before buying.  I knew all of the above, but still took a chance, mainly because the price difference was significant, but also because TechToysForLess had a 10-day return policy, and I thought that it would be enough time for me to "explore" the camera and find out whether it's defective or not.  In any case, I placed an order, and three days later held a new Z850 in my hands.  I didn't waste any time, and when the battery was fully charged, I started taking shots left and right.  All of them were crisp, clear, and sharp, so I knew the unit was good, and the lens wasn't defective as it was with the previous one I had.  However, and I noticed it right away because I tend to take mostly pictures of people, the colors were a bit "warm".  What I mean is there was a slight cast of "pink" present in all pictures.  You wouldn't notice it in pictures of architecture, food, or nature, but people's skin tone looked somewhat unnatural, and it was very obvious.  Neither Z60, nor Z600 had that problem.  I still kept the camera though because I could take care of it by doing some minor editing/post processing.  What finally made me gave it up (I sold it on eBay), was the Casio's ignorance and unresponsiveness to the fact that it had a "broken" movie mode.  The original firmware, version 1.0, that the camera came with had a problem with "stair stepping" - the movies were "jerky", and "noisy".  After numerous complaints by the customers, Casio released two new firmware versions, 1.1, and 1.1B that supposedly "fixed" the movie issue.  But what they in fact did was just "cripple" it - the movie angle was cut by 40% in version 1.1B, and the picture quality actually got worse!  Version 1.1 didn't actually fix anything, but rather "improved" already decent picture quality, and added support for high capacity memory cards.  Also, I've heard from a lot of people that even if those cameras function properly in the beginning, there is a big chance that they will brake later due to poor quality.  I didn't want to wait to find out, so I got rid off it.

I didn't do my usual Pros and Cons type of review in this case, and from above comments it might seem like there is nothing positive about this camera, but it actually does have a few good things.  For one, in addition to its big, super-bright display, it has a viewfinder!  A big plus in my opinion, especially when shooting outdoors in direct sunshine.  Also, on top of its numerous preprogrammed  Best Shots, it has some manual controls, giving you even more flexibility.  It's a nice little camera.  Unfortunately, it lacks in two important departments - quality and reliability.  I wish I could say that I enjoyed using it, but it was more of a hassle than fun.

However, I still stand behind Casio products.  After I sold Z850, I got myself a P700 model, which has been discontinued for some time now, and is virtually impossible to find anywhere.  It's a semi-pro model, and offers even more manual controls than Z750/Z850 models.  Excellent camera!  A true performer!  Built like a tank, has a sharp Canon lens, and made in Japan for a change! (all other Exilim models are made in China, which could be the reason for poor quality)  I've used P700 for a couple of months, and... sold it :-)  Yep... Call me crazy, call me whatever you want - I just decided that I want even MORE manual control and flexibility, so I got myself Panasonic DMC-LX2.  One word - Wow!  What a camera!  Optical Image Stabilization, Wide Angle Leica Lens, RAW format are just to name a few of many features of this truly great little gem of a camera.  I've had it only for 2 days now, but I'm already in love with it.  Don't forget to check my review of it, which is coming shortly.  I didn't completely abandon Casio's though - my present to my wife for Valentine's Day this year - Casio EX-S770 in Red color.  I'm definitely going to get my hands on it also, so come back for another review soon.  Once again, I hope I've provided you with some help in your camera purchasing decisions.  Good luck
