It's unfortunate that with a name like Canon, you expect a quality camera.  That's why you shell out the money for an item that you think Canon will stand behind.  Unfortunately, this is not the case.

I bought this camera to use in graduate school (industrial design).  I needed it to do research for my thesis.  I figured between that, all the product photographs, and the need good portfolio pieces, spending the 500.00 on an 8mp camera would be well worth the investment.  I was wrong.

About a month after I bought the camera, it started to malfunction.  The lens got stuck and would not come out.  Neither would it go all the way back in, so the lens cover would not close (not only putting the lens in danger, but draining the battery as well.)  It was still under warranty, so I sent it to the Canon Service Center in Elk Grove Village, Illinois.  It was received, and I was informed that my camera would be returned in 7-10 business days.  That was almost a month and a half ago.

I have put my thesis research on hold because I do not have the proper camera for it.  Every time I call the service center, I am told that the "parts are on back order".  Evidently they don't know when these shipments are due in their center, so they don't know when I will have my camera back.  The best part is, when I called two weeks ago, they offered me a "brand new" S215.  The told me it was a great deal and that I should accept the offer because "they NEVER do THAT" (meaning they never offer a new camera for one in repair.)  I pointed out that the S215 was only 5mp, had a smaller screen, and cost nearly 300.00 less than MY camera.  I also reminded her that MY camera was brand new when it broke and I had to send it in.

Today I was told that there was no information on my camera, the backordered parts, or when they could send my camera back.  The woman on the phone asked me why I didn't accept the S215 that was offered, and when I explained and asked for a camera the same model as mine, she said they were not authorized to do that.  I told her that I was going to spend the time originally set aside for my thesis research to write letters to both the service center and Canon Corporate Headquarters, and she suddenly had a technician she could consult, and my camera would be back to me by the end of the week.  I won't hold my breath, but a copy of this review will be sent to Canon.
