I have to say that I really wanted to like this camera. It takes good pictures and the ultra-wide lens is a nice feature. It is quite compact and has a nice screen. The software is reasonably good and has a nice presentation to the user interface.

Why 2 stars? Ok here's the bad stuff:

1) In the first shipment I got, the normal mode (non-ultra-wide angle) didn't work. The images were garbled and almost unrecognizable. The ultra-wide images were fine. I attributed it to getting a random lemon and returned it for an even exchange. The second V570 I got from Amazon worked fine until about 5 months later and then the normal mode crapped out on me. So, I don't think it is just a random problem. There appears to be a reliability issue with the non-wide angle part of this camera since it seems statistically unlikely that I would randomly get two cameras with the exact same problem. My V570 is now a nice-looking paperweight and I use a Casio Exilim EX-Z70. 

2) The stand seemed nice at first until it came time to travel. You have to unhook the whole thing and lug it around with you if you want to charge your camera or download pictures and movies without a card reader dongle. Also, since you have to charge the battery in the camera, you can't charge a spare battery while you are taking pictures with the other. For comparison, my new Casio EX-Z70 has a USB cable that is easy to stick in the pocket of my bag and has an external battery charger. So, if one battery is dead I can leave it behind in the charger while I take pictures with the spare.

3) The movies that you take with this camera are stored in MOV format instead of AVI or MPEG. While it does play in most PCs if you have installed Quicktime, it is not supported by my streaming media player (D-Link DSM-320RD) and is difficult to work with in the video editor/DVD creator SW I use (Sonic MyDVD). I can't say how widely MOV is supported compared to AVI and MPEG, but that format created problems for me.

So, I applaud Kodak for not clinging to the sinking boat anchor of the photographic film business and going digital. But I think a few more usability studies and more attention to reliability would help make this a winner in future iterations
