This is a good example of the kind of scope astronomers warn beginners against.

The first red flag is the ridiculously high maximum magnification of over 700x. Do you know what you will see at 700x in this scope? Nothing but a dim blur. Note that the objective (main) lens is 60mm. All telescope optics have inherent limitations; maximum useful magnification per millimeter of aperture is about 2x. Therefore, with any attempt to use this scope at magnification of over 120-140x,  increase in image size will be more than offset by breakdown, and that's even assuming the quality of the objective lens is any good. 

The finder is useless, smaller than the bare minimum size of 6x30.  Finding anything but the moon will be time-consuming and frustrating.  The low power 20mm eyepiece may or may not be usable on the scope, depending on its design and field of view.  That the design information is not given in the ad is disturbing.  And don't even think of using the 4mm (high power) eyepiece or the barlow.  

I do not recommend equatorial mounts for beginners.  Their tracking properties are primarily for astrophotography, and for this they require careful setup.  The equatorial mount on this scope is provided primarily as a marketing gimmick to impress naïve buyers with its complex "scientific" appearance.  

In a way, it is hard to fault Celestron for making and marketing this scope.  Their upper-tier instruments are quite good, but the big money appears to be made on mass market toys like this.  In one sense the sale of these scopes subsidizes their good models.  Just make sure, gentle reader, to stay away from the toys.

Using an astronomical telescope is not like playing an MP3 file and but rather like playing a guitar. It is a learned skill. And you must do a lot of homework before you buy a telescope. Buying without prior experience is like buying a car without knowing anything about driving. If you want to see the wonders of the sky, contact your local astronomy club and attend one of their star parties. The members love sharing their hobby and can set you straight as to how to get started. The best way is to learn the sky with the unaided eye and 10x50 binoculars (decent ones are available on Amazon), then graduate to something along the lines of a 150-200mm (6-8") Dobsonian; Celestron's own 6" Starhopper can be found on Amazon for under $290.

For more information on buying telescopes, see my encyclopedic guide on Amazon: "So you want to buy a telescope.
