The ME-1 provides a modest 1.2x magnification for viewfinders on Olympus's E-300 and E-500 cameras. Ideally, this would allow sharper manual focusing and more precise framing. Unfortunately, this did not happen when I used the ME-1 to make a number of trial images with my E-500, so I will be returning the ME-1 for a refund. (For the record, I wear prescription eyeglasses while shooting, with my "shooting eye" corrected to 20/20 vision.) 

Like other folks, I find the E-500 viewfinder a trifle small so that it's not always easy to frame a shot and see exposure data at the same time. The camera must also be pressed against your face when framing, which is not always comfortable. 

In some ways, the ME-1 created more problems than it solved. The ME-1 kept the camera further from my face (though it seemed to bump harder against my glasses), but at the cost of *narrowing* my angle of vision in the viewfinder. Divide the viewfinder into four equal columns and rows so you have eight squares. The four squares in the middle of the viewfinder were easily visible, but those along the sides, top, and bottom were *less* visible than before, the corners considerably less. To frame a shot, I had to move my eye around the viewfinder much more with the ME-1 than without it. To see exposure data, I had to shift my eye almost completely away from the image. More hassle than I need when shooting in the field.

Fortunately, there is another option that works for me. The E-300 and E-500 come with an EP-5 eyecup, which is definitely too small for my taste. But a larger eyecup is also available, the EP-6. The EP-6 keeps the camera a little further from my face. And with the viewfinder diopter properly adjusted (a critical step no one seems to mention), the EP-6 allows me to see both the entire image and exposure data without shifting my eye very much at all. 

All of this will vary from person to person, of course, and there may be circumstances when the ME-1 is exactly what's needed -- so two rather than one star. But not in standard shooting conditions, especially if you need to compose, set exposure, and shoot quickly
