If I could, I would give this camcorder a 0 of 5. Since I now have to search for a new camcorder, from reading other Panasonic model reviews, I am convinced I did not just get a lemon, but the Panasonic brand is bad. 

We bought this camcorder 18 months ago at the birth of our son. It has had problems from the beginning. First, I could not finalize the disk. I called Panasonic support, who basically told me the problems we were having were because the camera was not being held still while recording. This is ridiculous since I often set the camera down on a countertop so I can be in the video. Then I finally got someone to tell me that I needed to be recording on Panasonic mini-DVDs. The best it has worked have been on the Panasonic DVDs which are some of the most expensive, and even that is no guarantee that you will be able to watch the DVD after finalization. I still have freezing of the picture and sparatic playback when trying to watch. It has skipped over whole sections. I have 3 DVD players in my home (all different brands) and the disk works on none of them.

I finally got an address to send it in for repairs. I was not happy to be without my camcorder for an extended period of time. I was told they would look at the camcorder, see if there was a problem and call me. I waited a week after I knew it was in the shop to check the status. Panasonic FAILED TO MENTION that I would need to pay $207.50 UP FRONT for them to look at it, then if any repairs were needed, this cost would cover them as well. SO, I have been without a camcorder for 3 weeks while waiting to see if it needed fixing, and the company I sent it to has not even looked at it because I have not paid them! This is crazy since I can get a brand new miniDV camcorder for $225. 

The only reason it has taken me so long to take drastic action is because we are military living overseas and bought it at Best Buy. So you see why I couldn't just take it back to the store (or I would have a long time ago)! Also after spending over $500 on this piece of junk, I could not afford to just replace it. Sending it in was not an option when my son was a newborn, because I didn't want to miss any precious memories (which I ened up missing anyway!). So now the holidays are upon us, and I will be forced to purchase another camcorder, since I don't know if they will send it back to me in time for Christmas. I will not pay the $207.50 for a camera that hasn't worked well out of the box. I also had to pay shipping both ways for nothing!

Plus another thing, the still picture is bad quality. Very grainy and you can actually see pixels when you print it. We only used that function once. 

I have lost so many disks, and have so many others that only play part of the DVD that when I think of it I cry. I have also wasted so much time trying to figure out how to fix the problem with a customer support that is useless. I wish I would have never bought this camcorder! IF YOU ARE BUYING THIS CAMCORDER TO CAPTURE MEMORIES, BUY ANOTHER! I will not buy Panasonic products again!
