I've just returned this unit. It doesn't play videos as advertised.  I was able to get it to properly play .avi files at 320 x 240 resolution...see other review below. But 320x240 gives a postage stamp size picture. At 640 x 480 the playback was full size but jerky and broken....more later. 

I have now had 3 different brands of 8" photo frames in my possession: a Phillips, a Pandigital, and this Coby.

I have developed the following list of features in my "ideal" photo frame. First, video playback: I've been taking a lot of video clips with my digital still camera...they come out well and the convenience of not having to lug my camcorder along, and the ability to quickly transfer clip files within/between chips and my computer is attractive. I would like a frame which will play the format my camera is taking (.mov, more later) I'd also like the frame to play a multi-media show...that is, to play movie clips in show presentations, intermixed with .jpg photo files.

Second feature is to play .wma music files, in addition to MP3. This is because I have a non-Ipod personal music player. All my music is in .wma format because it is roughly half the file size of MP3.
Third, I would like a timer on my frame...set it to come on in the morning, off at night, for example.
Fourth, I'd like an audio or speaker out feature. None of these frames has home theater-like sound, and I have an extra pair of computer speakers I'd probably hook up. Video out could come in handy too.
Fifth, I'd like to be able to rotate stills from within the frame's software, manually or automatically. Yes, you can rotate them in the computer, but the frame may or may not preserve the rotation. (This may depend on which photo edit program you are using.)
Sixth, I'd like a folder hierarchy file management system in the frame's software. Especially with the huge chips now available, I see an advantage to push a couple of buttons and change the picture set (folder), rather than switching out chips.

Here is where the 3 units I've had stack up, followed by my next (fourth) unit. 

I am keeping the Pandigital....which Costco has for $140. It plays .mov video files, but not within a slideshow. It has no speaker out jack and the sound is tinny. It requires MP3 music files. It permits picture rotation.  No folder management system. No clock/timer. No ability to play stills/video intermixed. I think the Coby and Phillips picture quality is brighter but the Pandigital is ok.

The phillips didn't play video, and since it also had a software glitch when I returned it I decided to look elsewhere. (no remote and no music with the philips either.)

The Coby won't play my videos, even after I used my converter program to try about 10 different MP4 and AVI variations. The Coby plays .wma music files, won't rotate stills, has no folder system, no clock/timer. It has a speaker out jack. It does not permit intermixing video and stills in one multimedia show. Picture quality is fully equal to Philips, generally the recognized standard. If all you want is photos, and never turn your camera sideways, this unit will be a good value.

Another unit I'd like to get to play with would be the Image Moments model by Digitalfoci. I've exchanged emails with someone there who clearly knows what they are talking about and I believe this unit will intermix my photos and videos.

