This camera is a decent enough camera, compact, easy to use and takes good quality video and still pictures and the battery life is excellent.  The battery that comes with it is good for a couple of hours continuous recording and the tapes only last for one hour.  I acquired a second battery that is good for 240+ minutes so I never worry about running out of juice.  I have only two complaints really, one minor and one major. 

The minor complaint is the fiddly little controls on the touch screen LCD viewfinder. I find I need to use my reading glasses to see what I'm doing.

The major complaint is transfering video to my computer via the iLink cable (not supplied).  I have never persuaded it to work.  By browsing various camera fora on the web I am finding a complaint identical to mine with this model in particular as well as other Sony models.  The computer will recognize the camera in USB mode (for capturing still pictures from the memory stick) but does not see it at all when plugged in via iLink (firewire/IEEE 1394).  All indications are that my firewire port and cable are perfectly OK.  Sony tech support, both web chat based and phone, have no clue and because I am out of warranty it will cost a flat $210 to send it in and have them take a look at it.   

If all you want to do is connect the camera to your TV to playback the video you take, it's a good camera.  If video capture an editing is what you have in mind, buyer beware. Because of this, I can only give the product 2 stars, other wise it would be a 5.

Update:  I installed a new Firewire PCI card on my computer and using a new cable tried the video capture again.  I also tried the camera on my neighbor's Mac (on the theory that if a Mac won't recognize it you really know you have a problem).  The computer still won't recognize the camera.  This camera has been used very little and definitely not abused.  It was probably defective right out of the box and it appears to be a common problem.  If you buy this, make sure you test all of its capabilities as soon as you get it.  Don't wait like I did because I'm out of warranty and it will cost me to get the problem fixed
