I have had this camera for about a year.  It has been nothing but a problem.  First, the kodak easyshare software has continuous problems.  I have spent HOURS trying to fix it.  Still has bugs in it no matter what I do. 

Secondly, the camera is very unreliable.  I have a wedding to go to this weekend and I do not trust it and am taking a disposable camera too.  How do I explain the problems I have had?  There are so many.  The camera misfunctions continuously.  Sometimes it does nothing at all.  Other times the zoom lense will not shut.  You turn the option selector on and even though it is on the option you select you get another option.  I sometimes can not even shut the camera off I gotta take the batteries out to do so...if I can even find batteries that work in the camera.

Honestly, I call tech supoport and told them the problems I have having and they tell me that only Kodak batteries work with the camera and told me to buy some.  SO I went to a nice camera shop and they do not sell kodak batteries.  The camera salesman told me that Kodak cameras are junk and the brand of battery should not matter.  I believe him.  So my camera which would not work...I asked the salesman to help me out.  It did not work with any lithium batteries.....reusable or rechargable. He popped in some alkaline batteries and amazingly it worked.  Well, everyone knows alkaline batteries have a real short short life.  My camera now does not work with either batteries.  Probably only Kodak batteries....maybe....or maybe Kodak wants to get another ten bucks out of me.

I personally don't even think the pictures this camera takes are any good.  Really, when people take pictures of me with this camera my eyes are always closed.  I am so anxious to get rid of this camera.....well would be but know I gotta fork over at least $250 on a good camera.  Trying to save money on this 'disposable' camera was a waste.  STAY AWAY FROM KODAK CAMERAS!  If you don't believe me get a creditable camera magazine and read reviews.

