The story of "Alice in Wonderland" was controversial from the moment that the Reverend Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, aka Lewis Carroll, wrote it.  Some took the story as horror rather than a childhood fantasy.  Others consider Alice's journey as a trip into or through insanity.  For better or worse, Disney did capture many of these elements, and the same criticisms of the books that form the basis of this film apply to the film.  However, there are also those who loved the books and loved the film.  Normally I recommend Disney classis without reservations.  In the case of this movie, I will keep a couple of provisos.

Alice is a young girl bored by her lessons.  As the length of the lessons grows, Alice soon drifts off, until a white rabbit passes by, muttering to himself that he is late.  Alice follows the white rabbit and falls into a rabbit hole that seems to fall forever.  Luckily for Alice her dress opens out into a kind of parachute and slows her descent.
Once at the bottom of the hole, Alice discovers a door into which she is unable to pass because the door is too small.  However, there is a vial labeled "drink me" that Alice discovers makes her small enough to go through the door.

Alice is soon on her way into a series of surreal adventures that are in the best tradition of adult animation.  Indeed, Alice might have worked better as an adult story given the number of references to adult vices and frailties throughout the film.  Even the fundamental basis of Alice's journey through Wonderland owes as much to psychological references as it does childhood fantasies.  The ending of Alice's journey in particular is quite frightening, especially to younger children, embodying all that can be horrible in nightmares.  I remember seeing "Alice in Wonderland" as a child, and I remember I thought the ending was scary, and I was relieved when Alice was able to escape back to the normal world.

Given that this film is well over fifty years old, I was disturbed by the smoking caterpillar, if for no other reason than our current knowledge of what smoking does.  The smoke did negatively affect Alice as it made her cough.  Perhaps there is an object lesson for children here.  While some consider many of the references to allude to drugs, I think that is a modern interpretation.  I think eating or drinking items to get larger or smaller was merely a convenient plot device for the author rather than an allegory for drug use.  Remember that this story was first published in 1869.

I believe this film is excessively criticized by those who do not like its style and the post-era associations with negative elements that were never intended by the original author and by Disney.

For all these provisos, this film is excellent.  It matches "Fantasia" in its surreal visions, and the construct and tying together of the individual stories is superb.  The animation is marvelous as well, readily illustrating the vision of Alice's journey.

This movie is one of those rare Disney films that I am unable to recommend to all viewers.  Whether you will enjoy this film is strictly a matter of personal taste.  If you enjoy animation oriented toward adults, then you may find this animation a treat.  If you are open-minded about the story and consider when the story was written and animated, you may also find that you enjoy it.  I do recommend this movie for slightly older children, perhaps 8 and above, considering some of the disturbing images.  Good luck!
