Before I rate the box set and the four movies I would like to give you a brief history of my life with these films. When I was really young I use to always ask my dad to rent Tremors and we would all set and whatch it. But when I got a bit older and I could understand things better I became afraid and was scared of Grabiods coming up from underneath are house and eating me. Anyways after about two years I got the guts to whatch Tremors 2: After shocks. And Afterwards I was agian afraid of Grabiods and now Shriekers attacking me. Finally after about ten years of not watching them, me and my buddy Travis got to talking about Tremors and he asked me what Grabiods where. So I dicided to draw him pictures of them and after a few days I ended up creating a Tremors comic. So after becoming so involved with Tremors again I decided to watch the first film again. And after it ended, I bought it off Amazon and a week later I bought the third movie and then another week after that I bought the second. I had literly gone a 180 from fearing Tremors so long ago to become a huge fan. And when the fourth finally came out I had my family, my friend Travis and his brother hooked. Now after being a huge fan and watching the four films over and over I can finally rate them. The original Tremors is by far the best; with it's all star cast and great story line. The second best would have to be Tremors 4: The Legend Begins because it stays more true to the first and it shows how it all began. Tremors 2: After shocks would be third best since it stared Earl and Gummer and Tremors 3: Back to Prefection would have to be the worst since it's story is weak, its short and it takes the evolution thing a bit far. Overall this is a great pack of all four Tremors movies and if I hadn't boughten all of them aready I would buy this Attack Pack. Ps. Tremors 5 script has been finished and if Tremors 4 sales enough they will make a fifth. And one more thing it would be awsome if Universal would release Tremors: The Series on DVD. 
