I will be utterly honest, I don't buy music CDs anymore.  With so many bands hitting the streets faster than I can imagine, I honestly cannot keep up with them all.  Music begins to sound the same, corporations seem to have their pre-determined hit prior to the public even forming their own opinion.  Those like the Simpsons, Backstreet Boys, and even hip-hop artists are blending together to sound uniform, unoriginal, and overly drab.  I had nearly lost my faith in music, retreating to some of my older music like DMB, Counting Crows, and Travis, but then I found ... The Suns.

Stumbling around the Internet I discovered, shockingly, one of the videos to their album called "Romantic Death".  It was one of the most creative and disturbing videos that I have seen in quite some time.  Then it hit me, I couldn't get this song out of my mind.  Throughout the whole day I had the beat, the lyrics, and the overall sensation of the song stuck in my mind ... and I had only heard it once.  Like a drug, I needed more.  When I returned home that evening I found the song again and couldn't stop listening to it.  For the first time in a long time, I had found a new band.

Then, I bought this album.  Knowing nothing about the band except for the "Romantic Death" song, I put this in my DVD player and continued to be impressed.  Their videos are just as smart as their music.  Their tracks seem to cover every genre of music from folk, rock, and even hard edge.  Their lyrics seem well-considered, smart and a voice to a new generation.  My favorites of the album are:  

"Must Be You"
"Romantic Death" (Parental Guidance is suggested) 
"Lost at Home"
"Rockstop"
"We Tried"

In fact, every time I listen to this album I find a new song to explore, a new song to jam to on the way to work; a new song to enjoy!  For those skeptical of this band, I suggest this album to test your tastes.  Not only does it provide songs for you to burn onto other CDs which allow friends and family to explore this band, but also all of their energetic, original videos that will never see the light of day on MTV, but can be watched from the leisure of your DVD player.  The Sun are a breath of fresh air to the music industry and this album finally got me out of the corporate rut that seems to be plaguing this industry.

"...if the rockstops, it'll be all my fault..."

Grade: ***** out of ***** 
