 The military courtroom drama,"A Few Good Men" is one of those films, that through endless cable showings seems to have taken a life of it's own. But even with countless viewings it retains it's emotional power and speaks to us about issues, that have become more important than ever. In the film we meet Lt. Daniel Kaffee (Tom Cruise) a young successful, military lawyer, who is considered so slick at plea bargaining out cases, that supposably he's "never even seen the inside of a courtroom". He is assigned the cases of PFC Louden Downey (James Marshall) and Lance Cpl. Harold Dawson (Wolgang Bodison). They are accused of murder and a host of other charges, when at the Guantanamo Bay military base they performed a "Code Red" (an illegal form of discipline within a military unit) on Pvt. William Sandiago, which unintentionally resulted in his death. While the two accused Marines admit they did the "Code Red", both claim they were under orders to do so by their superiors, which includes Base Commander, Col. Nathan Jessup (a brillaint Jack Nicholson) a powerful, highly decorated officer, who is being groomed for one of the top slots in the military command. With both time running out and a lack of legal evidence, Kaffee must get to the bottom of a conspiracy and present his case, even if it means putting his own career in jeopardy. Through a brilliant script (based on the play by Aaron Sorkin), Rob Reiner's steady direction and the cast's dynamic performances this film looks at the meaning of highly held military principles such as "code, honor & discipline". Should a soldier always follow orders no matter what? Whats' more important our ethics & principles (on which this country was founded) or our need for security? Is Col. Jessup right? Can we not "handle the truth"? It's hard to believe, that this film was made way back in 1992. In this post 9/11, post Abu Grebbe world, where our country is on a war footing the questions, that the film seeks to address have become more profound and important than ever. The film is filled with great performances. While I am not normally a huge Tom Cruise fan, I have to admit, that Cruise does a wonderful job as the young conflicted lawyer. The same goes for the great supporting cast which includes good acting turns from Demi Moore, Kevin Bacon and Kiefer Sutherland. But what really propels and turns this film into a classic is the brilliant, dynamic performance, that comes from Jack  Nicholson. When Cruise puts Nicholson on the courtroom stand and starts pointly egging him on, you just watch in awe as Nicholson just continually builds the character's palpable anger, until he just boils over and explodes in the now infamous "You Can't Handle the Truth" speech. Even though the speech and Nicholson's performance has been endlessly quoated & parodied, when you put it in the context of this movie it still has so much power and resonance. If you are interested in seeing a well made, movie courtroom drama, that is both thought provoking and entertaining then I highly recommend "A Few Good Men"
