This is another superbly done documentary from the award winning PBS investigative journalism series Frontline (Peabody Award, Emmy and many more!). Disregard what one reviewer said about this being pro-Walmart propaganda paid for by the corporation. He's obviously  smoking something, because this is made and hosted by Hedrick Smith, a PULITZER prize winning journalist who used to write for the NY Times. He is one of America's most respected journalists. I started watching the show since I was in high school (I'm now late 20's) and their shows are exceptionally high quality. Now, if Frontline is interviewing people who lost jobs and showing Rubbermaid factory equipment being auctioned off because they got put out of business by Walmart, how is this pro-Walmart? 

The story starts in America and its impact on the US economy. He interviews some professors, economists, managers, suppliers, and executives. Then the story moves to China and HK, and then back to the US. There are some very clear insights from nmost of the people interviewed especially from one professor who talks about the shift in American culture and business history. 

Is Walmart good for America? I can't answer that and neither can Frontline. This documentary does an excellent job presenting facts without judgement and presents both sides and the complex shades in the middle. It asks some thought provoking questions. The US trade deficit is getting worse every day. Quality is going up (some "Made in China" stuff is now very good and getting exponentially better every year), and that's really scary for us in America. Who's the blame? Well, all of us. We're not competing well in the global economy, and we want the cheapest goods. We're not willing to put our money where our mouth is. 

If you're interested in economics, history, social issues, this is a must see. If you care about the American economy, and global events, you should watch this documentary. It's loads better than the "Walmart, the High Cost of Low Prices" film (which is very one sided and not nearly as well done). oh,.. and start learning Chinese
