SPOILER ALERT


The ending of this 118-minute marvel seems an almost foregone conclusion. The bored billionaire did it. However, he and the sexy insurance detective play with each other until the audience is very, very hot. Pierce Brosnan, the billionaire, still sexist from his stint as James Bond, enjoys playing with the lady, Renee Russo. And she, as the tough but sexy Catherine Olds Banning, loses her heart to him, as much heart as such a sexpot character is allowed. In the process, she shows some very appealing nipples. 

The 1968 version, of which this is a remake, starred Steve McQueen and Faye Dunaway. In this version, to the socially irresponsible, self-absorbed 90s are ever present. We don't mind not having the suspense, we just yearn to see Brosnan and Russo "get it on." Dunaway appears as a psychiatrist who is trying to help the billionaire figure out why he is so socially irresponsible.

Brosnan, as Thomas Crown, is bored, but open to being titillated by a beautiful woman, for as long as he is interested in her. For thrills, he steals priceless works of art from publicly-funded museums. The film makes it clear he can do so, under the noses of   security guards, police, and hundreds of innocent art-lovers. Russo's insurance company insured the painting, so she is looking to recover the irreplaceable, but impossible to fence Monet, and save her employer a bundle. 

What we have here is a film with clever dialog, rich and exotic sets, and loads of sexual tension. One wonders now, after Enron, WorldCom, Tyco, and other corporate heists, just whom Brosnan is cheating in order to support his high-tech heist brigade. How many of his employees are going to lose their pensions or health care benefits over this. He never really, you know, works. But I digress.

Dennis Leary has a character role as the streetwise New York detective, who advises Russo's Banning. As we watch her slowly spiral out of control, risking her job and her reputation, we are kept mildly engaged in the question of whether Russo will fall for him, or Brosnan. Duh.

The film moves back and forth from caper to cover-up. This can be confusing, but who cares? All we have to do is wait for their next move, the next gorgeous set, the next revealing love scene.

The Thomas Crown Affair will keep both men and women interested, for all the usual reasons.

It is a film worth watching, and a great date flick
