Warner Herzog's "Grizzly Man" won the Director's Guild Award for best feature documentary, but the people who pass out Oscars apparently didn't agree. "Grizzly Man" was not among this year's nominees for Best Documentary.

Many of Herzog's narrative films, such as "Fitzcaraldo," deal with man's attempt to challenge the indifference of nature, so "Grizzly Man" is not a departure by any means. Herzog's heroes are often obsessed with accomplishing some mysterious, even bizarre, goal. Timothy Treadwell's fixation is on grizzly bears. "I am one of them," he is heard to say. He survived in the wild, accompanied by a video camera, and, on at least one occasion, by a girlfriend., living among the most dangerous beasts in the world whom he apparently believed he was protecting. "Animals rule," he said, fist defiantly pumping in the air. "Timothy conquered." 

Treadwell became a minor celebrity during his life, appearing once on David Letterman's CBS show, but he aspired to more. Before letting his love of animals consume him, he tried his luck in Hollywood. He got an agent, and auditioned for TV and movie roles. He was, he told his parents, second choice for the bartender role on "Cheers" which went to Woody Harrelson. Missing out on that opportunity left him "crushed." 

What really drove Treadwell? 

He reminds me of fey little Carson on "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy," and as he openly mentions that it's easier to be gay than straight, I wonder if he was homosexual but unable to deal with his orientation, transferred his love of men to the roughest trade imaginable: grizzly bears. "I like girls," he volunteers, but then he mentions various cruising places - truck stops, men's rooms - in such a way as to make me think he had personal experience haunting these kinds of homosexual hangouts. 

He was also an alcoholic. Were his wilderness adventures an escape from passions he was emotionally and psychologically unprepared to pursue? 

Those who are seen offering their remembrances of Treadwell never allude to his sexuality. They describe a man whose life is ruled by a naive, hippy, New Age approach to nature and who died as a result. The bears, to whom he gave names like "Mr. Chocolate" and "Tabitha," need protection, he said, and he was their self-appointed caretaker. Others suggest that, despite his good intentions, he did more harm to the animals than he could have imagined. After Treadwell was eaten by a bear, the animal was shot and its remains became a feast for other forms of wildlife. Shooting a bear because he eats a man is comparable to shooting the customers at KFC for eating chicken. What is a bear supposed to do with a human who invades his turf? Treadwell was an intruder. One mans saysTreadwell made the mistake of thinking these were people in bear suits. But Treadwll knew these were animals. Trouble is, his knowledge of animals seemed to have been learned from Disney cartoons. 

The universe, director Herzog says, is ruled by hostility, chaos, and murder. Treadwell had a different philosophy. "Isn't that sad?" he squeals in his high-pitched girlish voice as he observes a bee who apparently expired while doing "his pollen thing." 

"I love that bee," he says. 

Partially financed by the Discovery Channel, "Grizzly Man" is superficially a nature documentary about a man who loved wildlife so much that he felt at home among the bears and wolves more than he did his fellow humans. But it's also a portrait of a highly disturbed man who admits he was treated for manic depression but rejected medication to control the condition because, he admitted, he needed those soaring highs and crushing lows. He also needed to record his solitary life on video. We see him crying as he pets a wolf, laughing when his command that God make it rain seems to have been obeyed, and arrogantly blasting the humans whom he perceives as the enemy of the animals. What we do not see is his final encounter with the bear that ate him. Mercifully, the lens cap was on the camera when he was attacked. The camera was running, though, and Treadwell's screams, and the screams of his girlfriend, were recorded. Out of respect for his family, Herzog does not let the audience hear these recordings. Instead, we see him listening to the audio, and his reaction (telling one of Treadwell's friends that she must never listen to it, just as she must never see the coroner's photos of the aftermath of the attack), is possibly more effective than including the obviously horrific sounds in the film. 

"I had no life," Treadwell said of his days before he began to frolic with ferocious beasts. "Now I have a life." That life is memorialized in Herzog's film. 

Brian W. Fairbank
