Tim Burton offers the most charmingly off-beat yet visually sumptuous movies in Hollywood.  From his stop-animation work ("The Corpse Bride") to dark romances ("Edward Scissorhands") to horror ("Sleepy Hollow"), Burton never fails to offer feasts for the eyes that manage to make you squirm just a bit uncomfortably - all the right notes are there, but some are played just off-key enough to create the thrill of tension.

Perhaps no other director was so suited to film Roald Dahl's most famous work, "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," and remain true to the author's vision.  Most people associate the tamer, goofy "Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory," starring Gene Wilder, with Dahl's tale, but forget that Dahl had a healthy streak of Lemony Snicket sensibility to him.  So it is perfect that Burton makes a darker, more dangerous film for all to enjoy.

The visuals in "Charlie" are astounding.  The chocolate waterfall and river look like actual liquid chocolate (not the icky brown water of "Willie Wonka"), and the squirrel-nut-sorting room is a classic of mind-blowing set design.  And that is not all - oh, no, that is not all!

Possibly the most visually stunning element in "Charlie" is Willie Wonka himself, played by Burton favorite Johnny Depp.  Depp sinks so deep into his roles that he becomes one with them, and one wonders what inspired Depp's quirky, nervous, mean-spirited, selfish concoction.  Depp plays Wonka as tight as he plays Jack Sparrow loose, and he never misses a note. But whereas Gene Wilder's Willie Wonka was more genial puppetmaster, Depp's Wonka has a sadistic streak in him, perhaps instilled by his dentist father.  This is a great, if much-maligned, performance.

The most infamous element from the first movie was the seemingly-drug-inspired presence of the Oompa-Loompas, Wonka's army of diminutive henchmen.  In the Wilder film, the Oompa-Loompas were dwarfs given to sophomoric dance numbers to the irritatingly catchy "oompa-loompa-do-be-de-do" tune.  In this version, all the Oompa-Loompas are played by the same character (even though there are hundreds of them), and their dance numbers are even more fantastic.  However, the songs don't have quite the same sharp punch as the original songs, which pointed out the various failings of the kids and their parents as they got eliminated from the contest. Indeed, there are several lyrics that I just couldn't catch in this film version, and that is a pretty major quibble.

Far from a feel-good movie, but definitely a good movie, "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" deserves to be seen and, for fans of artistic visions, studied. 
