This 2-disc DVD set is a must have! Herein are contained 29 classic shorts spanning from 1930 to 1947, in the first of what will likely be a 2 volume collection. Included are some of Pluto's, and Disney's best cartoons, from the Oscar winning remake "Lend a Paw," to the first appearance of Chip `N' Dale in "Private Pluto." Here is a rundown of what you get in this wonderful DVD set!

Disc 1:
The Chain Gang (1930): In this black and white Mickey Mouse short, Mickey is a prisoner in a chain gang who, after musical antics result in a riot, makes a break for it! Two bloodhounds, officially considered the first appearance of Pluto in a double role, are hot on his trail.
On Ice (1935): In this early, color Mickey Mouse cartoon, the whole gang is enjoying a day on the ice, but Donald Duck's prank playing nature puts Pluto in the spotlight.
Pluto's Quin-Puplets (1937): In this familiar classic, the first "official" Pluto short, we meet Pluto's family, as his mate, Fifi, leaves him to watch over their 5 puppies while she goes after some sausages. The outcome of which is a drunken Pluto and a fascinating paint catastrophe, resulting in some bizarre looking pups. Great short!
Beach Picnic (1939): Donald Duck, the official star of this short, sets out to have a picnic on the beach with Pluto in tow, but the day is spoiled by a familiar flypaper routine and those pesky ants! The Duck and the dog are GREAT together!
Bone Trouble (1940): Butch and Pluto battle it out over a bone here, the highlight of which is that famous funhouse mirror routine that saves the day! Great moments with Pluto in the hall of mirrors!
Pluto's Playmate (1941): While Pluto is playing with a ball on the beach, a seal takes interest and becomes determined to make friends, despite the dog's resistance. Classic type of Pluto story, to be repeated again and again in future shorts.
Canine Caddy (1941): Mickey heads out for a game of golf, but Pluto and a gopher louse things up!
Lend a Paw (1941): This Oscar winning short about kindness to animals is pure Disney magic! Surprisingly, it's a remake of a black and white Mickey short! Great story about Pluto regretfully rescuing a drowning kitten that starts to take his place in Mickey's home. Pluto's devil and angel make their most memorable appearance in this one! 
Pluto, Junior (1942): Pluto's pup, Pluto Junior, can't seem to stay out of danger, even in his own backyard!
The Army Mascot (1942): Pluto notices how well fed the local Army mascots are and decides to try to replace one of them. He foolishly chooses a grouchy goat! 
The Sleepwalker (1942): Pluto meets his second great cartoon love, Dina the Dachshund, in this classic short. However, he's more interested in hanging onto his bone than sparking romance. Too bad his sleepwalking is working against him.
T-Bone For Two (1942): Pluto and Butch the bulldog clash again, in another epic battle over a bone.
Pluto At the Zoo (1942): This excellent short is full of animal antics, as Pluto attempts to steal a bone from a lion's dish at the zoo. Love the gorilla scene!

Disc 2:
Pluto and the Armadillo (1943): On a trip to Brazil, Pluto's ball gets mixed up with a friendly Armadillo in a brief stop off between flights! Very cute short that features Mickey, too! 
Private Pluto (1943): Pluto is given orders to guard a cannon from suspected saboteurs. To our delight, those saboteurs are Chip `N' Dale in their first ever appearance! They're living in the gun and using it to crack and store their nut supply!
Springtime For Pluto (1944): This rarely seen, very colorful Pluto short is a pure delight! It's rarities like this that are the gold nuggets of the Disney Treasures series! The Pan-like Spirit of Spring awakes Pluto to a bright new day, but his enjoyment is eventually smothered by the down-sides of nature.
First Aiders (1944): Hooray, Pluto and Figaro! This short is one of those great Disney team-ups that features a star from Disney's "Pinocchio," Figaro the cat! In this old fave of mine (I love Pluto and Figaro shorts), the boys battle it out while Minnie attempts to practice her first-aid skills on them.
Dog Watch (1945): This is another fave of mine! Pluto is a Navy dog, and is given orders to keep intruders off the ship. A pesky rat causes trouble for him though, setting his sights on the ship's galley!
Canine Casanova (1945): Pluto is madly in love with Dina, but can't get her to return the sentiment, until he rescues her from the local dog pound!
The Legend of Coyote Rock (1945): Another old fave! Pluto is a sheepdog that has to fend off the legendary Bent Tail, the coyote!
Canine Patrol (1945): In this short, Pluto works for the U.S. Coast Guard and takes his job a little too seriously, doing his best to keep a cute little turtle off the beach! 
Pluto's Kid Brother (1946): K.B. can't stay out of trouble, and he badly needs big bro Pluto's help when Butch tricks him into robbing a butcher shop!
In Dutch (1946): Pluto is the local milk delivery dog in a little Dutch village. He and Dina get in trouble one day, when Pluto's wooing results in a false dike alarm sounding off. But, when the dike actually does spring a leak, it's Pluto and Dina who save the day!
Squatter's Rights (1946): Chip `N' Dale are back to torment Pluto again, when Mickey and Pluto find them living in the stove of a cabin they are vacationing in! 
The Purloined Pup (1946): A wealthy puppy has been dognapped! It's up to police dog Pluto to locate the poor pup in the hideout of the number one suspect, Butch the bulldog!
Pluto's Housewarming (1947): When Pluto is moving into a luxurious new doghouse, he discovers an unwanted houseguest in the form of that cute little turtle. He has bigger things to worry about, though, when Butch decides to move in too! 
From the Vault: Pantry Pirate (1940), separated due to ethnic stereotype content: Pluto does his best to sneak food from the kitchen without the housekeeper suspecting.
From the Vault: A Gentleman's Gentleman (1941), separated due to ethnic stereotype content: One of Pluto's best cartoons, Pluto is the perfect dog to his master, Mickey, and takes every aspect of his role very seriously, including going to the corner to buy a paper.

This is a fantastic collection of classic Disney cartoons, necessary for the Disney or Pluto fanatic! Extras include introductions from Leonard Maltin, Pluto 101 (an in-depth look into drawing and animating Pluto), The Life and Times of Pluto (a featurette about the pup himself), Pluto's Picture Book (a section of the Disneyland TV Show episode "A Story of Dogs," that focuses on the career of Pluto), Pluto's Pal Fergy (a tribute to Norm Ferguson, the animator credited with developing Pluto), fantastic photo galleries (including Sunday comics, posters, backgrounds, etc...), a DVD booklet, a certificate of authenticity, and a lovely collectible poster art card. The packaging has gone a little cheaper than past releases (no more paper wraparounds, no more printing on the back of the tin), and I'm getting more and more annoyed with only getting half-episodes of the Disneyland TV series. Will it kill `em to give us complete eps? Otherwise, another outstanding Disney Treasures set! Can't wait for the next wave, and Pluto volume 2!
