The synopsis ...
Sam and Jonah Baldwin, father and son, have lost the most important woman in their lives to cancer.  Seeking to escape from the painful memories that lurk in every nook and cranny of Chicago, they move to Seattle.  Eighteen months later, Jonah can sense that his dad is still sad; and, in desperation calls a nationally syndicated radio self-help guru on Christmas Eve to wish for his father a new wife.  Annie Reed lives in Baltimore and is engaged to Walter.  Their relationship, while loving and comfortable, is entirely devoid of romantic sparks.  When Annie hears Jonah's soulful plea on the radio, it's as if her heart has been touched by "magic" and she is determined to find out why she feels so powerfully drawn to Sam and his son ... even if it means traveling across "like 26 states".

The critique ...
Sleepless in Seattle is a brilliantly simple film; that's what makes it so great.  To quote Nora Ephron, "It isn't a movie about love, it's a movie about love in the movies."  To emphasize this point, she incorporates various parallel references to "An Affair to Remember" throughout the film; but, Sleepless is also a movie about our genuine romantic fantasies and sentimental ideals about falling in love (which, let's admit it, have been undeniably shaped by what we've seen on the silver screen).  The script is refreshingly candid, yet endearing and Nora Ephron's direction is impeccable.  Ross Malinger, cast as Jonah Baldwin, is the youngest and most notable talent in the film.  He does an excellent job of portraying THE quintessential eight-year-old; he's impulsive, moody and thinks he knows it all.  (I speak from experience here folks; I currently have a son that age.)  He and Tom Hanks come together flawlessly as father and son; so successfully in fact, that they would be utterly convincing off screen.  The chemistry between Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks is equally amazing, which is no small achievement considering the fact that they rarely appear together in a scene.  The supporting cast is brimming with talent and includes Rosie O'Donnell, Bill Pullman, Rita Wilson, Rob Reiner, David Hyde Pierce, and a young Gaby Hoffmann.  Families with younger children will appreciate the film's integrity; there is very little foul language ("God damn it" and " ... it scared the shit out of me ..." being the worst of it) and no "sexual content" to be wary of.  All around, this is a winning film.  One that I find myself watching over and over and over again.

The DVD ...
For a 10th Anniversary Edition, the special features are few and rather disappointing.  You've got your basic director commentary, a music video ("When I Fall in Love" by Celine Dion & Clive Griffin), and a "Love in the Movies" Featurette.  This last piece is approximately 15 minutes long.  It features the director, producers,	actors and the hosts of Loveline: Drew Pinsky and Adam Carolla (why they are included, I don't know) talking about "Love in the Movies."  There are some interesting interview segments with an Empire State Building Historian and some very beautiful shots of the New York skyline before 9/11; but there's certainly nothing here to write home about.  By far, the most exciting feature is that you can choose your aspect ratio.  (And honestly, how exciting is that?)  This a DVD that you buy for the film alone.       
