I saw this movie in the 1986 theatrical re-release and subsequently on DVD. I can readily attest that it does not age! I'm not even a dog person myself, but the plot is not about dogs per say, but the life adventures that a young cocker spaniel named Lady has. 

Living with owners named Darling and Jim Dear, Lady apparently leads a pretty good life. Assuming that every dog leads the good life she and her friends enjoy, she is later shocked to meet Tramp, who lives on the streets. However, she soon realizes that he has a good heart beneath that rough exterior. 

She needs his help when crusty old Aunt Sarah comes to mind the house--and the newborn baby. Initially not understanding that Lady feels protective towards the baby, she also selectively ignores the damage which her two Siamese cats were actually responsible for doing to that very elaborate Victorian house. 

Amazingly, Aunt Sarah presumes that Lady was responsible for wrecking the house--and attempts to muzzle her up!

Like any streetwise character, Tramp has lots of connections and solutions to any problem which pops up. However, he does not come across as an annoying know-it-all who you would want to quickly get rid of. Tramp is instead somebody whom we are supposed to both identify and then want to hang out with in rough environments. Lady had 'gentle' friends named Jock and Trusty, but they can't help out in a world also outside of their own.   

Of course, the spaghetti dinner scene remains one of the most enduring of all time--it made a VERY profound impact on me well before I was even old enough to myself consider dating. I imagined that I would eventually share a romantic dinner of my own with my own "Mr. right". 

However, Tramp's decision to go after the rat in the nursery also remains a powerful scene. He then felt no loyalty to anybody in that family other than Lady, but saved the baby anyway! Tramp proved that class is not a matter of breeding but what you do with your self! 

Despite his earlier professed discomfort with collars, Tramp ultimately gets adopted by the Darlings. Therefore, he and Lady do in fact live happily ever after.
 
