Since "ER" debuted on NBC in 1994, it's taken the nation by storm.  It's wonderfully produced by author Michael Chricton,  a former surgeon before his writing career.  For numerous years, it was the #1 drama series on television.  The show starts with the cast of Anthony Edwards (Mark Greene), George Clooney (Doug Ross), Sherry Stringfield (Susan Lewis), Noah Wyle (John Carter), Julianna Margulies (Carol Hathaway), and Eriq La Salle (Peter Benton).  It has since won and been nominated for several awards including Emmys.  Its hospital action combined with personal drama always draws audiences deeply into every scene for every episode.  Its emergency scenes grown in intensity and drama through the episodes.

Season one introduces the everyday life in the ER in Chicago.  Throughout, it explores many critical issues including Hathaway's self-destruction that results in a suicide attempt, Carter struggling as a medical student, Ross living his sex obsessed life, and others.  Regular show viewers who haven't seen season one will see part of Lewis's reason for leaving Chicago in 1996, Greene in his first marriage and before Ella's birth (mother is Corday, who began in 1997), Deb Chin's (played by Ming Na) brief time in that ER as a medical student before returning as an official doctor in 2000, and many others.  Such combination shows partially how the show's theme evolved to today.  Episode by episode, the plot's quality stays on top.  The overall scenery, through the physical environment to the emotional drama, never fails to compile the unforgettable viewing experience.

Season two features the debuts of Gloria Reuben (Jeanie Boulet) and Laura Innes (Kerry Weaver, not an official cast member until season 3).  This season explores Ross's most heroic act as a doctor, Carter becoming a doctor, Lewis being forced to care for her neice, and many more.  Today's viewers who haven't seen season two will witness Boulet before testing positive for HIV, Weaver before realizing her lesbianism, Hathaway before her today's happy life (though now in Seattle), and others.  This plot evolves very well in quality from the previous season.  It continues its run of staying on top in critical care and drama.

Both seasons feature wonderful acting from the entire cast.  All add their own sense of individual theme into every scene.  Through personal struggles, drama, and continually saving lives, everyone gives the show its unique viewing flavor.

Such show quality makes "ER - The Complete First Two Seasons" worthy for all fans.  This is sure to please its audiences.  New viewers should watch these two seasons first.  Otherwise, the plot will be confusing.  Fans should watch for season 3 to be released on video in the near future
