Barbershop is a rare event in African-American filmmaking. It's one of the few that actually tells a fairly accurate story of what life is like for African-Americans. I love the fact that the movie showed how diverse the African-American community is; we see black people from different walks of life and different lifestyles shown onscreen. I really liked this movie. We definitely need more films like this
Calvin is the owner of a Chicago Barbershop passed on to him by his late father. Mired in debt from the shop and his crazy business schemes, Calvin is desperate to start something of his own and feels that the barbershop is a hindrance on his life. It's not until he sells the barbershop to a loan shark that he realizes the value of the shop to the community and sees a role for himself in the neighborhood. There are a dozen other stories that link to this main one and they're all easy to follow. One follows a stolen ATM machine, one follows the quest for love of an African immigrant, another follows a female barber and her cheating boyfriend, another follows a guy desperate for a haircut to go to a job interview, and yet another follows a white barber's quest for acceptance by the black barbers he works with. In a way, this film reminded me of those great ensemble movies like Pulp Fiction that follow many characters and their stories. Each of the stories lead up to the ending where Calvin saves the barbershop.
Director Tim Story does a great job of capturing life in Chicago and the informal environment of the barbershop. I felt the spirit of the Windy City and the informal environment of the barbershop. Watching the conversations in the movie reminded me of the barbershop in Harlem my father used to take me to when I was a boy. It also reminded me of the charged atmosphere of the old barbershop I used to go to get my flat-top trimmed (Both are closed now.) :( 
There are a ton of great performances in this movie; I'm probably going to miss mentioning a few people. Ice Cube is great as Calvin. I liked his performance here. Michael Ealy stands out in his role as an ex-con trying to turn his life around by becoming a barber. Ealy makes you feel his characters' desperation. Cedric the Entertainer makes a breakthrough performance as an old barber. He's funny and poignant. Sean Nelson is great as an educated man who works as a barber while going to college. Anthony Anderson and Larenz Tate are hilarious as two bumbling thieves who steal an ATM with no money in it. Watching them try to open will make you laugh. Keith David is creepy as the loan shark. Then again, Keith David is always good in anything he does. I'd pay money to watch him and Sam Jackson read listings in the yellow pages.
I don't know why Movie Critics and the Rev. Jesse Jackson denounced Barbershop, it's one of the best movies ever made about African-American life. Looking at the box office of Barbershop and Diary of a Mad Black Woman, African-Americans actually WANT more films like this. As a black moviegoer I want different black films that allow the world to see the whole community, not just one small part of it. I for one and tired of the "Hood" movies like Never Die Alone, and Critically acclaimed movies like Monster's Ball and Hustle & Flow that depict black life as something negative. (Thankfully, it seems the rest of the black community is tired of these types of movies too, the box office and DVD sales for them is declining while the box office for movies like Barbershop and Diary of a Mad Black woman are going up.) End of rant, back to the review.
A Shawn James essential Five Star video. You must buy this movie. Get some friends together put the DVD in the machine, Pull up a chair and have a seat in front of the TV and hang out at the Barbershop. 
