   The caribou population is declining at an alarming rate and the Canadian government is concerned.  After a harrowing and kind of funny plane flight with tundra pilot Brian Dennehy government researcher Tyler is dropped in the frozen middle of nowhere.  It's a `kind of' funny plane flight because it's so well done.  Dennehy is a hung over, buckaroo bonzai type independent flyer.  His little prop plane, heavily laden with Tyler's (Charles Martin Smith) equipment, has a tough time both taking off and, later, staying afloat.  The in-flight repairs Dennehy makes had me on the edge of my seat - although the photography is the great strength of NEVER CRY WOLF, the acting - especially by Smith - and the editing are also nearly perfect. As harrowing as the plane ride is it's a pretty safe bet the plane will land (elsewise there'd be no movie) and Tyler will find survival, rather than research, is the pressing order of business.

 Tyler is there to locate a wild wolf pack, kill one or two of the pack members, and dissect them to discover if, as suspected, their stomachs contain an inordinate amount of healthy caribou meat.  Tyler, laden with crates of light bulbs and toilet paper, is materially and constitutionally unprepared for setting up a research station on his own.  Fortunately for him he'll be discovered, rescued, and befriended by two Inuits - the ancient Ootek (Zachary Ittimangnaq) and his adopted son, Mike (Samson Jonah.)  As Tyler notes in his voice-over narration, there are no orphans among the Inuit.  Ootek and Mike will arrive and disappear a few times, a wolf pack will be found, and Tyler will learn that man's relationship to the wolf is many times more complex than he imagined.

 I dislike most message movies.  They tend to distort characters and events, and beat you over the head until you accept their point of view.  NEVER CRY WOLF has a strong message about man and nature, but it's such an entertaining movie I didn't feel like I needed to join the Sierra Club to enjoy it.  The story lines are clear, and after the plane trip its plentiful humor is quiet and unforced.  Smith, who spends an awful lot of the movie alone, acting under his voice-over narration, is nuanced and convincing. Jorah and, especially, Ittimangnaq, are both good and both add a layer of authenticity to the film. And the photography is at times breathtaking.  NEVER CRY WOLF is a gem.

