"When was the last time you actually bought a ticket to see a movie, you actually paid your own money to see it?"
"Last night, Pasedena. The Bicycle Thief."
"It's an art movie. It doesn't count. We're talking about movie movies."

Robert Altman is one of my favorite directors, mainly for the way he finds insight in the most inane actions or phrases. This short exchange has many layers when taken out of context and many more when taken in context. With this dialog, The Player reveals exactly why Hollywood movies don't make the money they should. Not because they don't make quality films, but because when a good movie does make money, it doesn't count because it's not a "movie movie." If he stopped to really listen to what was being said, he would've seen that art films have a great drawing power and actually don't cost much to make. But people still wonder why the modern film industry is suffering.

Wait, there's more. The people in the room don't know it, but producer Griffin Mill, in a fit of paranoia, killed an unemployed screenwriter outside the theater that night. He was being stalked by a writer, but he blamed (and murdered) the wrong one. Now he's still being stalked, still in danger of losing his job, and the cops suspect him of murder. Not a good week for Mister Mill.

As the conversation presses on, Mill's potential replacement passes around a newspaper, telling people to read random headlines to be made into scripts. Mill spots the story on his murder which we're already watching play out in a movie.

Yes, it's that type of movie, the self-referential Hollywood movie about Hollywood movies that keeps teasing itself for the viewers' enjoyment. We've seen it about a thousand times before (or since): Get Shorty, Adaptation, Wes Craven's New Nightmare, even certain elements of 8 1/2. There's really nothing too special about it, but this one has much more subtlety and is much more believable. Pay close attention to the ending scene, and think about what words they're using opposed to what they're really saying.

There's really only one word for a film like this: "Clever!
