If you follow my reviews, you know that I felt the version of "Jack the Ripper" with Michael Caine as Inspector Fred Abberline was a phenomenal masterpiece. Not only was Michael Caine phenomenal in the role, but that version offered convincing speculation to a mystery we don't know and never will. While I respect this version with Johnny Depp, it is more horror oriented. (Michael Caine's version was more historical.) Onto the subject at hand. Some of you may know Jack's 5 victims. (Mary Anne Nichols, Annie Chapman, Elizabeth Stride, Kathy Eadows, and Mary Jane Kelly.) Well, they seem to have a close friendship, and we also get the impression that they share some dangerous secret. (In the Michael Caine version, the 5 victims knew each other, but they were just associates.) Well, of course Jack the Ripper comes into play. One scene is very well done in that while we don't see his face, we do see some disturbing pictures, and we do see him cutting his steak and pouring blood red wine. In comes Depp (Inspector Fred Abberline). It is interesting that while the older Michael Caine brought frustration and tremendous energy to the role, Johnny Depp looks like his character is living on borrowed time and going to die anyday. But maybe Depp didn't want to just imitate Caine. One thing I had a problem with was that while Caine had some trouble with his superiors, Depp's trouble with his superiors is blown out of proportion. (Without giving the story away, his superiors must have known things that they didn't tell Depp! At least Caine's superiors carried some reason on their side!) You'll probably notice that Depp finds things out much quicker than Caine did. (Probably because Caine's version was 4 hours, while Depp's is only 2.) While Caine was involved with an artist, Depp becomes involved with Mary Jane Kelly. Gradually, Depp discovers things that put together an interesting puzzle. Like Caine did in his version, Depp ironically gets close and almost friendly with the killer. (OF COURSE, DEPP DOES NOT KNOW HE IS TALKING TO THE KILLER.) Well, another problem here is that in the Caine version, we can understand more why the killer appeared normal and was even friendly with Caine. We never really understand here why the killer is friendly and even helpful to Depp. (Jack the Ripper does not have the same mental illness he did in the Caine version.) I will admit that the scenery is well done, the elements of horror are there, and Depp did a good job of not just imitating Michael Caine. And Depp's sergeant Godley does offer some entertainment. But if you saw the Michael Caine version, you will undoubtedly miss the quite probable historical accuracy. If on the other hand, you don't mind the fact that this version is more geared towards horror than history, you'll probably find it a respectable horror movie. SIDE NOTE: Johnny Depp makes Inspector Fred Abberline look like he's going to die anyday. Well, in reality, Fred Abberline lived on for 40 more years after he stopped Jack the Ripper.
