There aren't many films from any era that come close to being "perfect" (though that's not really the right word) in just about every way--probably you could count them on your fingers and have some left over.

"Friendly Persuasion" is one of those films--in spades. Directed by William Wyler and starring Gary Cooper, Dorothy McGuire, and Tony Perkins, it is a wonderful, human story about a loving family of Quakers (also known as Friends) living in one of the Union-Confederate "border" states at the time of the Civil War in the 1860s.

The cast, in small roles and large, is uniformly excellent, none calling attention to themselves but rather becoming their characters and making us understand them. Led by beloved, legendary star Gary Cooper in a great performance as the head of the Quaker family Jess Birdwell, they are marvelous, including child actor Richard Eyer as feisty "Little Jess", scrapping with his big sister or partaking in a running feud with "Samantha", his mother Eliza Birdwell's pet goose, who more than carries her end of the feud with scene-stealing craftiness.

There are incidents of family humor and love and occasional disagreements, and a hilarious episode in which eldest son Josh  (Perkins) accompanies father Jess on a sales trip and is set upon by the scrappy, amorous daughters of one of Jess's customers (Marjorie Main). We are settled into a lovely, lively exploration of the Birdwell family's idyllic existence.

Then the war intrudes.

Josh feels he must volunteer to fight as long as others have to, even though it is against the teachings of his faith. His younger sister loves a young Union officer who is soon to go into battle. Rebel troops are nearing the region where they live, and no one, including the audience, quite knows what will happen.

There is a beautifully honest and dramatic sequence in which young Josh gets his first taste of battle, which Perkins performs with heartbreaking realism. I recall my father, a World War II veteran, saying that this scene was the most realistic depiction of a young man's first time in battle that he had ever seen in the movies.

When it is all over and the Birdwells return to their quiet, hard-working, loving life as a family, the music (Dimitri Tiomkin's marvelous score) swells, the wonderful lyrics to the song "Friendly Persuasion" are sung sweetly by the young Pat Boone, and you realize you have spent two wonderful hours with these genuinely fine, completely human characters in ordinary life and in challenging times.

The story has been told with integrity, honesty, humanity, gentle humor, kind restraint and, yes, love--all of these also attributes of the Birdwell family that we have come to know. That is the "genius" of this film. Along with a very few others, it shows us who we are, who we can be, and how we can live, all with a grace and humility that is almost poetic. And the film never, ever loses its balance.

It's just a great and good movie. I've seen it almost a dozen times, and it can still move me to tears. I'm betting it could be released today, amid the ridiculously over-budgeted, badly executed films that rely too much on computer effects and star charisma, and that it would clean up at the box office.

The term "family values" has been kicked around a lot lately, and nobody quite seems to know what is really meant by it. Watch this truly beautiful film and you'll get a pretty good idea of the genuine meaning of those words.
