It embarrases me that I, a music man, have let this many years go by without reviewing this splendid movie. My wife rented it from a Hasting's video store back when DVDs were not widely distributed. I was in awe of the movie as it ended because I had no clue what to expect, and I wasn't expecting much anyway.

Richard Dreyfuss plays the role of Glenn Holland, a recent college graduate who takes the job of a music teacher to provide an income (he calls it a 'fall back position') while he writes what he hopes will be a musical masterpiece that will make him rich and famous. His first semester is a trying and learning experience as students see him as that school teacher everybody hated and whose class everyone dreaded.

But he finds his way into the students' hearts. The movie begins in the early 1960s, and rock 'n' roll has etched a permanent mark on the music landscape. Most of the students, of course, love the new music. Realizing he has an 'in' with the students, he makes an accurate comparison by playing Bach's "Minuet in G" (for Anna Magdalena) and asking the students what song it is. They reply it is the "Lovers Concerto" by the Toys ("What color is the rain that falls softly on my window.."). He notes they are wrong and that it is actually the SAME song (although he doesn't note that Bach's is in 3/4 and the Toys in 4/4) and is an example of an ancient music scale called the Dorian scale. He now has them right where he wants them.

Along the way, he continues to work on his masterpiece. But life, a new baby who turns out to be deaf, and the need for new things put his life on hold. As he notes by quoting John Lennon, "Life is what happens while you're making other plans" (or some facsimile thereof). Years continue to go by and events occur that happen in the life of virtually ever music teacher.

He has that one student who has a lot of heart but not a lot of ability - yet needs to get an hour of credit so he can remain eligible to play football. He has another student who wants to play the clarinet but is nervous. Yet he always comes back to the simple rock 'n' roll to make his point about 'real' music.

But reality plays hide and seek sometimes. He has it out with his wife about their deaf son - and his frustrations come to a boiling point on the night John Lennon is killed. Over time, they become friends - and one of the sweet sights of the movie is the son feeling the vibrations from the speaker as he 'hears' the music.

But another reality awaits - education budget cuts, and here Dreyfuss delivers the line with outstanding effect: "The day they cut the football budget in this state...well, that will certainly be the end of western civilization as we know it." It is in the presence of his now good friend, Jay Thomas (the football coach), that he talks about how he never wanted to teach but now that is all he wants to do.

The music track in this movie is awesome. There's just one thing I'm still trying to figure out: how did the students manage to mass distribute his music and practice it without him knowing it?

