I read the book in middle school and watched the movie shortly afterwards.  A few of the characters were switched around, but I was so impressed with the adaptation. A thriller that still makes me nervous and jumpy - the kids in the kitchen scene and when Mr. Arnold's arm drops on Ellie's shoulder as she's trying to turn the generator back on, for example. There have been countless lines I've memorized and quoted at appropriate and innapropriate times, due to my obsession.

And after watching it more than 25 times, I've come to appreciate it more. Great cast - Sam Neil is my favorite. Richard Attenborough is a little too cute and nice, but I liked his white clothing, the hat, and the amber cane. Wayne Knight was incredible as Nedry, the slob. He's as likeable as ever, though somewhat the villain. I always hate it when he dies. Jeff Goldblum fit the description of Ian Malcom from Crichton's novel well. Crichton sparked my interest in Chaos Theory, sometimes called The Butterfly Effect. I am a firm believer in it. And of course, in the novel and film, Malcolm was right. "Life finds a way..."  

(In Chaos Theory, the system is very sensitive to small changes in external conditions, and "random" --unpredictable-- events result from the "normal" equation/setup, because there is never a fixed set of outcomes; the system is unpredictable because of its complexity. Hammond thought his system was without error, that he was in complete control. He believed that the dinosaurs would fail to reproduce because all were engineered to be female, but he was wrong - the dinosaurs evolved because of the replacement amphibian DNA that was used to fill in the gaps in the dinosaur DNA. This DNA gave the dinosaurs the ability to change sex in order to reproduce, "survive," in a single-sex environment. And it turned out that Hammond was wrong about many other equations - things are not as black and white as he thought, and it is problematic to predict long-term behavior of his animals.)

Love the scene where the lawyer is eaten while sitting on the toilet.

We watched the Mr. DNA segment in a high school biology class. I've always thought it explained the process very well for something that is complicated (though I found Mr. Hammond's live speaking lines to be unrealistic...was he really planning to be there for each tour?).

The kids were kind of annoying. I didn't notice this until I was a little older, but Lex ("I prefer to be called a hacker") uses Silicon Graphics' 3D file system navigator to turn power back on in the park. Their logo is on the monitor. If only UNIX were as popular as Windows is now...

Anyway, the soundtrack was classic - it was the first CD I bought, back in the mid-90s.  Tonya Harding skated to the theme at the 1994 Olympics, or some other competition. I only liked her because of her excellent music choice
