WOW.  That's the only thing I can say after reading all sorts of negative reviews.  I admit, the very first time I watched the Grudge with my father NEITHER of us thought the movie was scary at all and couldn't understand its success, but after watching the movie a second time two months later by myself late at night I REALLY began to see how frightening the movie is.  Probably contains the same amount of fear as the original Exorcist, another movie that's really effectively well done.  You HAVE to watch the Exorcist and the Grudge at night to get the proper effect.  

The Grudge benefits greatly when it comes to maintaining a moody atmosphere and a pretty interesting story.  I say "pretty interesting" because the storyline isn't the best, or the easiest to understand.  Just interesting enough to get the job done.  The Grudge also benefits when it comes to not giving away too much or too little.  In fact, this is probably its strongest point.  

Every time something scary happens, you see just a "little bit" of that scary monster boy or some kind of strange shadow effect, which is *very* important if you want to effectively scare someone.  If the scary boy had appeared on screen for longer than a few seconds it wouldn't have scared me nearly as much because I would have gotten used to seeing it.  The boy appears, and then he's gone.  Not giving away too much REALLY works with this movie.  You see, to really scare me you simply CAN'T put a scary monster on screen for long periods of time and you HAVE to create a moody atmosphere to make the film believable.  The Grudge works *extremely* well it this area.  

The fact that something scary happens almost always unexpectedly in the Grudge allows me to give the film another compliment.  I'm telling you, the scene with the woman inside that building by herself (well, except for a security guard) and having to travel home to an apartment building all by herself is about 10 minutes of total bone-chilling excitement.  I *loved* this scene.  

I was totally on the edge of my seat wondering when the woman was finally going to have something bad happen to her.  The scene where the woman saw darkness coming before walking down the stairs and having to hurry up to get out of there was *awesome*, and the scene a few moments after this happened where she DID see something in the shadow was ANOTHER awesome display of bone-chilling brilliance.  There's a bunch of scenes like this throughout the movie.  Freakin' AWESOME!  

Excellent pacing and suspense makes the Grudge a true horror classic, in my opinion.  I've seen a thousand horror movies in my time and I'd easily put the Grudge right up there as one of the best.  

People today have drastically different opinions when it comes to what makes a movie scary.  Remember the good old days when everyone could agree that the Exorcist was the scariest movie of all-time?  I wish everyone agreed that the Grudge is a total classic, and that the Ring is another excellent one. 
