I've never been quite a fan of music DVDs.  By that I mean the live stuff.  I much rather be there to experience it then sit at home pretending I'm there.  That's one side of it.  I'm also a huuuuuge Gorillaz fan.  And I have seen them live.  The show to their self titled debut. But don't get me wrong, that doesn't make me biased towards everything they put out.  On the contrary it leaves me to judge them on a higher level because I only expect the best from what they've given.

With that said, this has to be literally one of the best music DVDs I have encountered in quite some time.  Don't worry about extras, documentaries, which while would have been nice to show how it was put together, are not here.  Which makes sense since the band itself is very discreet they wouldn't show you all that.

The show itself was amazing, and it literally jumps off screen as you watch this, and I recommend you have a decent audio system as well.  The amazing sound quality coupled by the beautiful visuals is astonishingly done well.  The editing and the post production were so well conceived they worked on this like a labour of love and not just another DVD to sell.  From start to end it will leave you speechless.  As you stare in awe at the grandioso that is the Gorillaz, you realise that while at first you figured them to be a fictious band in every aspect, they are quite real and very capable of producing grand music on every level.  You can tell by this by the standing ovation and after the show and after the encore.  Only few bands have ever been able to touch me musically on such a deep level. And to put on such a show which normally you could only catch at the studio over a period of months to produce is a feat in itself.

If you want special features videos and documentaries get the 2 other DVDs especially now since they just released their newest one.  Those will fill in all that nicely.  But even if you're not a fan or just a new convert, I highly recommend you own this.  No matter the age, or person you are, (you notice this on the DVD as well) and regardless of what your favourite genre is.  Because they are so massive they can't be contained into one.

Thank you Damon and Jamie for such an experience, mates
