I should say up front that I have never played chess, nor do I understand the game. But I remember being intrigued about the film when I saw the theatrical trailer. Was I intrigued because of the fact that the film was about a young boy with a special gift of a game? Was it the intense images of competition? Was it a curiosity about the game of chess itself and how it was played? Or was it about a deeper struggle within the boy? The answer is all of the above. "Searching For Bobby Fischer" is an excellent family film for all. I am living proof that even those who don't know jack about chess will love this movie. It is a movie not just about chess, but about acceptance, the bond of love and friendship, compassion for others, and not being afraid to be who you want to be. The balance of drama with edge-of-your-seat competition makes this a truly remarkable film.

Max Pomeranc plays the young and sensitive Josh Waitzkin, a pint-sized seven-year old with a cute lisp, who becomes fascinated with the "lower class" men playing chess in a New York park. He watches the men, his eyes shifting with each move of the pieces. He convinces his mother to go to the park with him, where he plays a game of chess with an older gentleman. It is there that Josh's mother realizes her son has a knack for chess. Also noticing Josh is the fast-talking park chess player, Vinnie (a funny and great performance from Laurence Fishburne) who befriends the boy and eventually teaches him a thing or two about the game. After a match with Josh, Josh's father (played by Joe Mantegna) realizes his son's special gift and enlists the help of a stern but knowledgeable chess teacher named Bruce (played by Ben Kingsley) to make Josh an even better chess master. Bruce sees a young Bobby Fischer in Josh and cannot resist the temptation to take him under his wing and perhaps fill the void that Bobby Fischer left in the country after his mysterious disappearance. Through all the technical strategies of the game being learned, Josh and Bruce develop a good friendship and with Bruce's help, combined with his own special gift, Josh excels in chess tournaments and collects a shiny bundle of trophies. But there may be a test even harder than becoming a grand master of chess.

We've all heard of parents trying to live their dreams through their children, especially when a parent sees a special gift in their child. But what happens when the thrill of competition and the persistent need to win cloud the parents' mind too much? And what happens when a beloved teacher wants you to be a carbon copy of someone or something that you're not? These are tests that run way deeper for Josh Waitzkin than any chess tournament. Josh learns quickly how addictive competition is and how obsessed people can become with a certain game. In his own way, the insightful Josh shows his father and teacher that he is not one of these people who lives and breathes chess like Bobby Fischer did. In the process, Josh pushes his father and teacher's feelings about him and the game of chess to the brink where they find they have to rethink their feelings. It's a matter of what is more important: chess competition, or love? Through it all, the three of them find that they can tolerate losing at chess but cannot tolerate losing something more dear; love and friendship for each other no matter what. There are some truly touching scenes in the film from the lecture Josh receives from his dad in the pouring rain, to the visit from his teacher at the Chicago tournament which comes toward the end of the show. But amongst the competition and drama, there are some nice comic scenes from Vinnie's trash talking against the others in the park, to the scene where the all the parents are literally locked up away from their kids during a tournament because they are so obnoxious, to the humorous appearance by William H. Macy when he offers to get Josh's dad a tuna sandwich. 

The climax comes in the huge chess championship at the end of the film where Josh takes Bruce and Vinnie's teachings along with his own style of playing and faces off against another chess prodigy named Jonathan. Jonathan is a boy I feel sorry for in the film. Playing since he was four years old, all Jonathan knows is chess and goes about life with a glazed expressionless look on his face. Perhaps this boy is proof of what living for a game can do to you, especially when you cannot just be a kid.

The acting is terrific. Ben Kingsley, Max Pomeranc and Joe Mantegna give us a very touching and real performance in this film. It's too bad that Pomeranc did not act much since this film because he was a great little actor and very convincing. A nice touch to the movie is the real black and white film clips of a very young Bobby Fischer talking about and playing chess with Pomeranc narrating along. It gives us a bit of the history of the world's greatest chess player and also gives us the implication that people were searching for a new chess hero to fill the void when Bobby Fischer vanished; enter Josh Waitzkin.

"Searching For Bobby Fischer" is one of those stand-up-and-cheer films that is perfect fun for the whole family with some valuable lessons to be learned as well! This is a movie you'll want to watch time and time again.
