Cast:  Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini, Elias Koteas, Gabriel Casseus, Michael J. Pagan.
Running Time:  123 minutes
Rated R for violence and language.

"Fallen" starts with convicted serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas) being executed in the gas chamber as the man who brought him to justice Detective Jon Hobbes (Denzel Washington) looks on. Hobbes thinks that this is the end but soon has to rethink as he receives a phone call which tells him to check a house out where he finds a dead man named Muscovich (Glen Witko) in a bathtub having been poisoned, the same way Reese used to kill his victims. At first Hobbes fears a copy cat killer but during the course of his investigation the name Robert Milano comes up, a decorated cop who apparently committed suicide. Hobbes speaks with his daughter Gretta (Embeth Davidtz) who at first is reluctant to speak with him. Things become even stranger when the man who killed Muscovich, Charles (Robert Joy) is found dead in exactly the same way having been poisoned again. Eventually Gretta tells Hobbes the truth, he is in fact dealing with an ancient demon called Azazel who has the power to jump form body to body at will by mere psychical touch. The demon Azazel seems to be taunting Hobbes, ruining his life & career, setting him up for murder & getting to his friends & family. Hobbes must find a way to destroy the ancient demon before it destroys him & everyone he cares about.

Charismatic leading man Denzel Washington is suitably cast as the protagonist and proves to have range, while John Goodman is okay but greatly underused while the same applies to James Gandalfini who plays almost the exact same character. Donald Sutherland doesn't prove to have any range, doing the usual gruff routine that he does in nearly all of his movies. Embeth Davidtz is a talented and totally under-rated actress. She delivers a good performance and shows great potential for the future.  The directing and camera work in this movie was superb. It was done in such a way where you can see Azazel's spirit go from person to person simply by following the camera up and down the crowd and watching the subtle touches one makes in a normal walk about town.  Although this film does require your full attention, it does not go unrewarded and you are not left at the end scratching your head wondering what had happened for the past two hours.  "Fallen" is an intelligently written, supremely efficiently executed, and one of the most unheralded, unnoticed thrillers of the late part of the decade.  One of the better of its kind
