Having an M.A. in English literature as well as a B.A. in literature and history, anytime a movie is BOTH historical AND literary . . . well, I get a bit excited to say the least. I don't wish to give the impression that this movie is based on absolute and authentic history because it's not, but the writers/directors/producers set it against a "historical" backdrop nonetheless. On that note, this is yet another stellar title from noneother than Ridley Scott. With that being said, I enjoyed "Tristan and Isolde" almost as much as "Gladiator" and a bit more than "Kingdom of Heaven" (all of these, by the way, are Ridley Scott films). Notice the historical adaptations here? 

While it may be true that the story of Tristan and Isolde was inspirational to Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet" as well as possibly fueling much of the intrigue of the Arthurian legend, this movie is not exclusively for the high-browed college types. No sir, good ol' red-blooded men and women will certainly be drawn into both the action as well as the romance in this movie. This is by no means a "chick flick" since there is present a large degree of bloodshed and overall suspense. On the other hand, it's not the typical "hack and slash" macho film because at its core is a very dynamic love story. In short, it should please both sexes simultaneously. 

Aside from James Franco (Tristan), I was rather unfamiliar with most of the cast. Sophia Myles (Isolde) is, for the most part, a newcomer to American audiences despite a rather large resume in mostly British films. I suspect this film will provide her the recognition she certainly deserves on this side of the Atlantic. While many of the other characters were convincing in their roles, no other character was more believable in his villainy than that of the arrogant Irish king (who just so happens to be Isolde's father). 

In short, this is one of the best movies I've seen in awhile. On some levels it reminds me of "King Arthur." Just as "King Arthur" attempted to provide a plausible history of the legendary Arthur, Guinevere, and Lancelot, so too does Ridley Scott by placing the action a few years after the establishment of the Angle and Saxon kingdoms in England. If you'll recall in "King Arthur," Arthur helps hold back the onslaught of the invading Saxons just as the Roman legions were exiting Britannia. Historians will point out that there is no evidence of Saxons in England until several decades AFTER the Roman withdrawal, but oh well . . . it made for a good story. Here, we witness the Celtic Britons as they are exploited by the Irish across sea. WHAT???? The Irish doing the exploiting and not the other way around? Well, "Tristan and Isolde" holds true to history in this aspect; namely, that the Celtic Britons of England were indeed pushed to the easternmost shores of the island after the coming of the Anglo-Saxons. This would, of course, have placed them in what is now Wales and Cornwall. And this is exactly where the movie is set. Let's not forget the story of Saint Patrick. Remember, he was actually a Romanized Briton who was captured and served as a slave in Ireland before escaping and ultimately returning to Ireland to convert the populace to Christianity. It's interesting to note that in the movie Christianity is a fairly new-fangled religion in Ireland, so no doubt Ridley Scott intended this to remind us of the time period at hand. 

I particulary liked "King Arthur" and "Kingdom of Heaven" despite the lukewarm reception they received from the critics. Critically speaking, "Tristan and Isolde" has been a bit of a mixed bag as well---but who really bases their decision to watch a movie on the arrogant views of movie critics? 

Rent it first if you must, but I suspect this one will be a "keeper" in your DVD library! 
