For a plot synopsis please read the Amazon review. I wish to talk about the reasons why you will love this film.

As a longtime fan of both Sam Raimi (of the Evil Dead series) and Bill Paxton (Aliens, Twister), I went to see this on opening night. Not many people can claim this I'm sure because it was and is, such a small film that received next to no marketing. For shame.

This film is in the best tradition of modern film noir including BLOOD SIMPLE and FARGO, both made by the Cohen brothers. Film buffs will be able to draw the connections to those films and their filmakers, so I won't bother to get into that. Should you have seen either of these films and enjoyed them, I suggest you stop reading and immediately rent A SIMPLE PLAN. If not, keep reading and I will try to express why this film is so remarkably brilliant. And why I hope you will take a look at it.

A SIMPLE PLAN is, at its core, about four people. And underneath all the plot devices and twists, it's about how they relate to one another. Notice I did't say characters, because this film doesn't have actors simply delivering dialogue. It's about people you get to know, understand and sympathise with as they undergo the most brutal of dilemmas. Sure, finding a mysterious bag filled with money is an excellent plot device, but the heart of this film is much simpler than that. It's about the basic human flaw of committing a criminal act and trying to weasel your way out of it. And being forced to do the most unthinkable things in the process.

That's what gives this film such depth. You watch these people try to figure out how to cover every angle so they can get away with stealing a whole lot of cash. And in the end it falls apart for two reasons: the details and the human factor. They say the Devil is in the details and this is never truer than with a crime. As for the human factor, where greed is concerned, people cannot trust one another because they fear the other person's greed while are unable satisfy their own.

In many respects this film is almost an homage to BLOOD SIMPLE and FARGO, but in many ways I think it is superior. I often draw the comparison by a scene which is both A SIMPLE PLAN and BLOOD SIMPLE where a body is increasingly difficult to dispose of. And even afterwards, after the emotional toll the has been taken, once one evil act is committed, another is sure to follow. It's so painfully facsinating to watch a person work out their problem on camera, frantically going over the details in their mind, all the while their heart is beating a mile a minute. Bill Paxton does this better than anyone. He is such a likable man (both in the film and in life) that you can't help but feel sorry for the mess he has created. His entire performance is a balancing act between getting away with a seemingly harmless crime, keeping his partners at bay and their mouths shut while being prodded along by his conspirator wife. That may make them all sound malicious, but really the opposite is actually true. They're all normal folks, like we've all seen a hundred times. And in the end it really gets to you because you can imagine how you would react in the same situations they find themselves in. 

After all, were you faced with the choice to steal a couple million dollars that no one would miss, what would you do? 
But then again, nothing is ever that simple
