At 23 years of age, I can truly say that I have been a lifetime fan of Sesame Street. Watching the 3-DVD set of Sesame Street - Old School, Vol. 1 has been both nostalgic and enlightening. Because I was born practically a decade after most of the material on this set originally aired, I expected most of the content to be new to me (I was barely a year old when Mr. Hooper's death was explained to the world), but that was not the case. Many of the short films and interstitials were familiar (and not just because I used to watch Sesame Unpaved on Noggin) to me as a viewer from the mid-1980s, and I think that just underscores the quality the show has exhibited from the beginning. Sesame Street truly revolutionized children's programming, not just because it was educational, but because it was (and remains) entertaining, not pandering. I'll admit, seeing Gordon with an afro, Orange Oscar and the first few tries at Big Bird's head still freak me out a bit (as they did when I saw them on Noggin several years back), but the show itself is just as good as I ever remembered, something that cannot be said for most nostalgia entertainment (like Transformers or He-Man or JEM).

The set contains five full episodes from the first five seasons, and 54 (the liner notes are incorrect, they should have asked Count for help) bonus clips. The set also includes the 25 minute pitch-film that was made before the series originally aired, explaining Sesame Street's message and motive. Although the episodes have a disclaimer that it is not necessarily intended for today's pre-school children, I believe they would probably enjoy "classic" Street even more than the current lineup of shows. The fact that today's pre-schoolers may be more advanced than the Sesame Street of yore can really be attributed to Sesame Street itself, and that's pretty cool. Still, I personally appreciate that the aim of the set is at adults, because so many of us associate our childhood with Sesame Street. A booklet is included that gives a brief overview of the series from the first five years and I found it informative. 

According to Muppet Central, a few sketches were altered or removed for music copyright issues (one with Stevie Wonder, one with Rogers & Hammerstein), but because I never saw the originals, I found nothing amiss. What astounded me more than anything was that at the end of the first five years, more than 600 episodes of the show had been produced. No wonder they can't release full seasons! Although the full-length episodes are great, my favorite part are the additional sketches from each respective season. Seeing Kermit sing "Bein' Green" in its original form, the "Bread, Milk and Butter" cartoon and the "In in the Sky with Diamonds" parody is a real treat.

The picture quality is great -- especially considering the program's age (and the fact that it was one of the first programs to be recorded on video, although film was used for most of the interstitials) -- I doubt the show ever looked as good as it looks right now. The sound quality is good too -- mono of course -- but clear and crisp.

Overall, I highly recommend this set for anyone who loves or loved Sesame Street. For those who were born after these episodes aired (like me), looking back at the beginning is really special. It is clear that everyone involved had a true love for teaching and interacting with children and taking television to another level
