This review refers to "Excalibur"(DVD-Region 2) 
  
In days of old, with knights so bold, and fair maidens glittering all in gold, lays the legend of King Arthur, Camelot, and the powerful, mystical sword known as "Excalibur". John Boorman's beautiful artistic film (adopted from Sir Arthur Mallory's "Le Morte D'Arthur"),will captivate you and take you away to another time and place. From the birth of Arthur, Merlin taking him away for 20 years, Arthur drawing "Excalibur" from the stone, the emergence of Camelot,the magical powers of Merlin and the evil Morgana, to Arthur's demise and being taken off to Avalon, the beauty of this film and this story will have you under a spell. 
  
The European cast and the exquisite location shoots in the country side of Ireland add a sense of authenticity to the flavor of this film. King Arthur, The Knights of the Round Table,Sir Lancelot, Guinevere, Merlin, Morgana, Sir Gawain, Percival, Uther, they're all very much part of the story, and the cast is tremendous. Nigel Terry is the good and noble King Arthur, Lancelot and Guinevere, who loved their King but also each other are played by Nicholas Clay and Cherie Lunghi. You'll see stellar performances by a young Gabriel Bryne(in his first feature film), Patrick Stewart, and Liam Neeson. Helen Mirren is excellent as the evil Morgana, and the always wonderful Nicol Williamson is the magical mystical Merlin 
  
This edition is for viewers with DVD players compatible with Region 2(Japan, Europe, South Africa, and the Middle East, including Egypt ).Some players are multi-regional, so check your manual. 
  
Parents...although a wonderful tale of knights and fair ladies, this is NOT one for younger viewers. The battle scenes are violent and a bit graphic and there are also some sexual situations. "First Knight" with Richard Gere and Sean Connery, although not quite as true to the legend, is rated PG-13, is quite an entertaining film, and may be more suitable for family viewing(there is some violence). 
  
A beautiful story and film. Enjoy....Lauri
