This is an awesome movie! I think its better than Anchors Aweigh. Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra are two baseball players named Eddie O'Brien and Dennis Ryan who play for the Wolves. During the off-season Eddie and Dennis are vaudeville stars. When they return for the baseball season the whole team is horrifed to hear that the new owner K.C. Higgins wants to take an active part in coaching. As it turns out the K in K.C. Higgins happens to stand for Katherine (Esther Williams) so the new owner is a woman. Katherine dosn't fall for womanizer Eddie so the two don't get along at all!! Dennis does fall for her though, but Katherine isn't in love with him. Shirley Delwyn (Betty Garrett) has her eyes on Dennis and she won't give up on him! Also in the cast is Jules Munshin who plays Nat Goldberg, Dennis and Eddie's baseball pal. 

This movie has a lot of great music.
The songs include "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" Frank and Gene sing this song as their vaudeville act. Also Williams sings this while swimming in the pool. 
"Yes, Indeedy" The boys sing this song to the baseball team when they return from their vaudeville act. Its about their love life.
"O'Brien to Ryan to Goldberg" Kelly, Sinatra, and Munshin sing this song! One of the best numbers!
"The Right Girl for Me" Sinatra sings this song to Williams.
"It's Fate, Baby"  Garrett sings this to Sinatra to prove that they were meant for each other. 
"Strictly USA" Probabley the best number everyone sings this at a party.
"Upon St. Patrick's Day" Kelly dances and sings to this great song. He sorta does this Irish gig. Kelly is truly the best dancer there ever was! This is one of the best numbers up there w/ Strictly USA.
At the end Kelly, Sinatra, Williams, Garrett sing to Strictly USA as the finale. It really great! The dvd has the following special features which are 2 deleted numbers called "Baby Face" and "Boys and Girls Like You and Me". It also contains the trailers of Anchors Aweigh, On the Town, and the trailer for this movie. Also includes notes on Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly. For some odd reason I love this movie! This is a must see if you are a Kelly fan
