Plot Summary: A man-without-a-memory found floating in the Mediterranean Sea searches for his identity, discovering along the way pieces to the puzzle that ultimately paint him as a highly-trained government assassin.

Reason for the Rating: Violence and some language.

Based on the Robert Ludlum-authored book by the same name, THE BOURNE IDENTITY is part action flick, part stylized thriller. In his first role as an erstwhile action hero, Matt Damon shines as Bourne, imbuing the character with both an appropriate edginess and a comfortable-in-his-own-skin-even-though-he-doesn't-know-who-he-is ease.
As the story opens, Bourne is pulled out of the Mediterranean Sea and treated for suspicious bullet wounds by the crew of an Italian fishing boat. The "hey, this is a story about espionage" theme is introduced early as a crew member removes a tiny implant from Bourne that displays what we later learn is a Swiss bank account number. Upon finding and opening the safe deposit box, Bourne discovers multiple passports (including one with the name Jason Bourne), a variety of foreign currency, and a gun. He then begins his search to uncover his true identity--and until now, so does the audience.
If there is one misstep in THE BOURNE IDENTITY, it may be the fact that early scenes involving the CIA and the agency's frantic attempts to track him down give audience members the answer to Bourne's identity far earlier than Bourne himself. At this point the film becomes more of a "how will he survive?" thriller rather than a "who am I?" mystery.
A love interest of sorts (played nicely by Run Lola Run actress Franka Potente) gives Bourne a "partner in crime" to play off of for much of the movie, but her role seems more of a plot contrivance rather than a reasonable or logical plot development. An implied (off-screen) love scene for the two is just as implausible as it is brief, but doesn't detract too much from the action.
The most interesting (and morally significant) moment in the film comes when Bourne finally remembers who he is as well as the mission he was on. Through this pivotal flashback (and some foreshadowing that finally makes sense), we learn that the highly-trained killing machine isn't capable of pulling the trigger upon seeing his assassination target's children in the room with him. Bourne's hesitation nearly costs him his life and sets the course for the film's premise as he is shot, falling into the Mediterranean Sea.
Smartly directed, THE BOURNE IDENTITY is fast-paced without feeling rushed. The Cinematographer paints the European setting in shades of grays and yellows, giving the movie a unique noir-like look that fits well with the drama. As an action film decorated with whodunit sensibilities, this film is a winner for older teens and adults.

Nappaland.com Recommends: Ignore the plot contrivances and just enjoy the ride--THE BOURNE IDENTITY is a worthy discovery.

After the Show...If members of your family choose to view this movie, use these questions to spark discussion about it afterward:
---What do you think prompted Jason Bourne to pause when he was preparing to shoot his assassination target on the yacht? What does this say about Bourne's moral compass?
---How would you feel if you suddenly couldn't remember who you were? What actions would you take to discover your identity?
---When faced with the horror of who he really is and what he has done, Jason Bourne longs for a chance to erase his past and start his life anew. When have you felt that way? How can a relationship with Jesus give us a "second chance" in the truest sense?

S
