Seinfeld-Season 6 would see the sitcom finally hit #1 in the Nielsen ratings. This was also the season where the storylines became more complicated as Jerry, Elaine, George, and Kramer would all be involved in one caper or another in the same episode. George's parents, Frank and Estelle Costanza, as well as Jerry's parents, Morty and Helen Seinfeld, and Newman are featured more prominently and we also see the debut of several strong role players such as Mr. Pitt, David Puddy, and Kenny Bania. Amazingly, the storylines stayed strong throughout the season as several episodes would become classics. And while Jerry was usually considered the weakest of the four main actors, his work improved a lot during this season. 

Disc 1 starts the season out strong with the excellent episodes "The Big Salad" and "The Pledge Drive" as well as the hysterical classic, "The Couch." "The Chinese Woman" and "The Gymnast" are also very good episodes, both showing the continuing neuroses of the Costanzas. The sitcom always seems to have great episodes on Disc 2 and this is no exception with "The Soup", "The Switch", where we finally learn Kramer's first name, and "The Race" all being classic episodes. Disc 3 is also top notch, featuring the excellent "The Scofflaw", "The Kiss Hello", and "The Doorman", also known as "The Bro", as well as the two-part "Highlights of 100" episode. Disc 4 starts out with the classic episode "The Jimmy", which earned Michael Richards an Emmy for Best Supporting Actor, the excellent "The Fusili Jerry", and the strong season finale, "The Understudy", which mirrors the Tonya Harding/Nancy Kerrigan fiasco, only with Bette Midler, of all people, playing the victim. As usual, the extras are just as strong as the episodes. The Running With the Egg featurette that shows how an episode of Seinfeld is created is probably the best feature thus far in the Seinfeld series. The bloopers are also very funny from this season, especially the ones from "The Fusili Jerry" episode. The deleted scenes, inside looks, exclusive stand-up material, and the Notes About Nothing are also top notch. Although not quite on the level of Season 4, which was their best season, Season 6 was another great season for Seinfeld as the writing was still top notch and the ensemble cast was running on all cylinders. Highly recommended.  
