I owned the VHS version of ''The Wild,Wild World'' but decided to get the DVD this winter.
WELL..That was a great purchase !
I understand people that could see the documentary of Jayne in Europe,as pretty cheaply made,BUT it is still Jayne,and if you love her (as I do),any film she was in (except The Girl can't help it,and Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter) was done on the cheap,with ridiculously small budgets.
'The Wild,Wild World' gives you the chance to see a candid Jayne in all kinds of very campy situations,and the best scenes are when Jayne pretends to be offended by the goings-on...
It shows a Jayne Mansfield who was indeed a true-original,rather eccentric person in the anal-retentive American Fifties.I can't help comparing her to what Anna Nicole Smith has done with her 'career' as a media sensation,BUT Jayne was doing basically the same FIFTY years ago,which was understandbly much more shocking for the common-folks.
When Jayne talks about her film roles,you wonder if she is laughing with you or at herself.
I don't understand how she can be compared to Marilyn Monroe.MM was looking for privacy,more serious roles,spoke to journalists only if she absolutely had to,when Jayne was waking up her daughter in the middle of the night to prepare drinks for journalists who needed something to write about.Jayne was not too picky about her roles,and the kind of attention she was getting,and it was her undoing.Sad,but she needed the money to keep up that image,all those children,dogs,and...husbands.
NOW ,about ''The Labyrinth of Sex'': It is HYSTERICAL !! and a great choice to make the DVD a double-feature,just like the good-old days of the Drive-ins !
When you get over the awful dubbing,the documentary is rather well made,naive to today's standards of course,but well-intentionned.Some viewers will just see crass-exploitation,but if you are into Campy,Kitsch movies,and you see Ed Wood Jr. as a genius...well you will love IT !.The movie trailers are very funny as well,and make you wish you could find them.
So my conclusion is that DVD is an EXCELLENT purchase,a must-have for any serious Jayne Mansfield Fan !!
