I saw this THAI horror film about 3 years ago. I have to say this is the best supernatural thriller made from Thailand, and I have seen a fair share of them(Nang nak, the sisters, mae nak, art of the devil series).

The film focuses on Tun and his girlfriend Jane. Tun, a photographer reunites with his old friends. On the way home, they accidentally hit a girl with their car and from then on, Tun sees ghostly apparitions whenever he takes pictures or whenever he tries to develop them.  Ok, I am not spoiling anything, the story is more complex than it sounds. Tun and his friends have a past that catches up to them, with Jane caught in the middle. As usual, there is a vengeful spirit going around killing people. "Shutter" refers to his camera and what it represents. "Sometimes the dead cannot let go of their loved ones.." I'm stopping here, I don't want to give out anymore.

The plot is not that complex, but believe me when I say, the film is well-made. It does a great job of putting things together, each shocking scene is linked to the past and the present. I didn't see any scene wasted and it has that very atmospheric, creepy feel to it.  Also, there is a scene in the movie that Tun and Jane looked at ACTUAL photos of ghostly apparitions in a polaroid. 

Honestly, this film has some great scenes that can make the hairs on the back of your neck stand on end the very first time you watch it and the "shock ending" has the greatest twist of any horror flick I've seen! I've seen a lot of horror films, only THE EXORCIST and THE OMEN ever scared/creeped me out, and SHUTTER came very close. My female friends were scared out of their wits when they saw it at my place.

Since I haven't seen the TARTAN release and I only own the region-3 DTS-ES rlease from PanMedia (Hong Kong)but Tartan usually uses the same transfers from either the HONG KONG or KOREAN versions. The video is sufficient, with some dark and bright contrast. It is not free of grain but it does add to the atmospheric feel. the DTS soundtrack is great though, very crisp and loud. The english subtitles are excellent, the Thai language track is the only way to watch as it was meant to be seen.

A DEFINITE must-see if you are a fan of ASIAN HORROR or horror films in general. It rivals RINGU, ONE MISSED CALL and the original JU-ON 1 and 2.
FOUR AND 1/2 STARS!
