Director:  Denzel Washington
Cast:  Denzel Washington, Derek Luke, Joy Bryant, Salli Richardson, Malcolm David Kelley, Cody Hodges, Leonard Earl Howze, Novella Nelson.
Running Time:  120 minutes
Rated PG-13 for violence, language and mature thematic material involving child abuse.

Based on a true story, and with a screenplay written by the eponymous hero from his own book, "Antwone Fisher" is at heart a study of psychological disturbance, laced with reasonable amounts of Hollywood sugar and optimism about the human spirit. It's a peculiarly American medicine, swallowed less willingly in some markets than others, which probably explains why criticism of the film often confused Denzel Washington's directorial talents (which are generally good) with the various workings of his film's plot, which can be argued about.  Antwone Fisher's story starts in the navy, where after a particularly vivid nightmare he slugs a fellow shipmate, and is hauled up before the Captain. Sent to navy psychiatrist Jerome Davenport (Washington), he begins to work out issues of anger that, it turns out, stem from an abused childhood to which is added a guilt complex over a dead friend. At the same time Fisher (played exceptionally well by newcomer Derek Luke), struggles to establish a first adult romantic relationship with the inviting Cheryl (Joy Bryant). In a parallel plot thread, Washington's character, the ever-reasonable Dr. Davenport, is having marital problems. In due course we discover that he has things to learn about communicating too and Fisher is a catalyst for his own change. 

Fisher's screenplay reached the cameras by a somewhat circuitous route: after his stint in the navy and with little writing experience, he was hired by a Sony executive to write his own story - a process which apparently underwent over 40 drafts before it was acceptable. Most of the weaknesses of the film can be traced to the uncertainties he brings to his new craft, although Washington's direction papers reasonably well over many cracks. The most unconvincing elements are those subplots that revolve around the main character. These include the psychiatrist's ironic domestic problems, as well as Fisher's tentative love life. One is tempted to see these narrative distractions as rather manipulative bolt-on elements, leavening the appeal of a central, harrowing, personal history. The Fisher - Cheryl romance for instance, while in context necessarily clumsy, is also ultimately gauche. And once consummated, it is left to languish without further comment, as if further exploration of this side to Fisher's maturing was unnecessary.  Perhaps sensing this central weakness, Fisher's script introduces another element into the young African-American's tortured life as a foster child. During flashbacks he has to deal with 'slave-nation' justifications from Mrs. Tate (Novella Nelson), suggesting a link between the hurt done to the individual and that presumably done to the whole black race - a reasoning which is frankly unconvincing and none too interesting. Significantly, such issues are given short shrift by the psychiatrist himself, and soon disappear from view. On the plus side is the central performance by Derek Luke as the hero, a perfectly judged acting job, that neatly balances inner rage and confusion - "I don't know what to do" - with lack of self-pity. Washington's role is also well done. Given the difficulty of the actor-director role, he is to be applauded for carrying off both so effectively and without fuss, either in front or behind the camera. 

This is Washington's directorial debut and he does an admirable job of painting a thorough picture of Antwone and even though the film could have benefited from some tighter editing, it's still a film that delivers all the emotional goods. Arguably the most impressive thing about this film is the casting of Luke who was a total unknown actor with a mere handful of television credits to his resume and obviously Washington knew he possessed the right goods to pull off the role. Despite its flaws, "Antwone Fisher" is an intriguing look into the real life of an estranged, enigmatic individual; it is a film that will stimulate the heart and make you wish that small children didn't have to endure such horrors.
