This is one of the best (if not THE best) pure screwball comedies of the 1930's. Next to the original Thin Man movie, Libeled Lady is my favorite Powell/Loy effort. This time, the magic chemistry of that oft-paired duo is enhanced by the box office-drawing talents of fellow mega-stars Spencer Tracy and Jean Harlow. The first shot of the movie celebrates this happy collaboration as the four top-drawer actors merrily, confidently stride arm-in-arm toward the camera. 

The plot is convoluted. The Star has erroneously printed a story about heiress Connie Allenbury (Myrna Loy), portraying her as a marriage wrecker. Connie immediately files a 5 million dollar libel suit. Star newspaper editor Warren Haggerty (Spencer Tracy) counteracts by hiring on suave fellow newspaperman Bill Chandler (William Powell) to romance Connie and place her in a compromising position, thus negating the lawsuit. Haggerty convinces his harried, long-suffering fiancee Gladys Benton (Jean Harlow) to instead marry the bachelor Chandler as part of the scheme.  Things get really tricky when Gladys falls for Chandler and Chandler falls for Connie, who eventually falls for Chandler. And Haggerty? He pretty much spends the movie just seething. Yet everything ends fairly well, even if there's still lingering confusion as to who is exactly married to whom. 

Libeled Lady boasts mix-ups and complications galore and couples matching, cross-matching and mismatching. Sophisticated wit blends with full blown physical comedy. Delicious acting is laid in by four stars who, throughout their film careers, never ever lost their prime. Powell proves again his mastery of the confused double-take and, along with the wry, understated Myrna Loy, dominates the refined repartees. And representing the more lowbrow couple, Tracy supplies the blue collar bluster and Harlow the affronted looks. Walter Connolly as Connie's angling-loving father is simply wonderful. The intricate storyline is easy to follow, thanks to the clear helmsmanship of Jack Conway. With this cinematic venture, Hollywood certainly offered up to the viewing audience its most glamorous and most urbane of stars. I think it's brilliant stuff
