SCRUBS has been a model of consistency in its five seasons--and to interrupt myself, why aren't we anticipating Season Five instead of Season Four? And boo! on them for being so slow to bring the show out on DVD!--and Season Four is no exception. I recently rewatched Seasons 1 through 3 on DVD with my daughter and it really brought home just how great this series has been from the very beginning to the present. If you visit boards there are always prognosticators who declare that it isn't as good as it used to be, but I would be dishonest if I said that I detected any decline. One thing I've really enjoyed is that unlike situation comedies, this one really does have an overall story arc, and I really appreciate Bill Lawrence and Co. taking the time to reward fans of the show in this way. 

The story in Season Four revolves largely around the very, very gradual repair of the friendship between JD and Elliott. Fans of the show know that at the end of Season Three JD, utterly smitten by Elliott, had expressed his love for her, causing her to break off her relationship with her boyfriend to be with JD. No sooner had he done this, however, he once again felt trapped and almost immediately broke things off with her. Season Four opens with her filled with hatred of him, complicated by the fact that she and he are named co-chief residents (though there is wonderful confusion over the fact that the name plate on her door reads--thanks to Janitor--"Chief Resident" and his misleadingly reads "Co-Chief Resident," causing many to imagine that she is over him). Some of my favorite visuals in the series are of JD and Elliott wedged into their ultra tiny office, barely large enough for the desk they face each other across. Of course, eventually they patch things up, but for the first season have no kind of romantic entanglement. Given the intensity of the events of the ends of Season Three, any sort of getting together would certainly have ended with Elliott murdering JD. The season ends with Carla and Turk urging JD to move out and get a place of his own, which leads to an interesting roommate situation in Season Five. 

Season Four continued the SCRUBS tradition of having some very high profile guest stars. This was marred somewhat by having the absolutely dreadful Colin Farrell on one episode, an episode through which he drifted as if completely drunk or totally bored (there have been very few bad episodes of SCRUBS, but this episode ranks near the bottom). The always delightful Heather Graham sparkled through several episodes earlier in the season. Matthew Perry stopped by for an episode less interesting for his presence than for his being teamed with his father, Jonathan Bennett Perry, a country singer best known to most people as the Old Spice sailor. Tara Reid puts in another appearance as JD's terrible sometimes girlfriend while Molly Shannon is in another episode. And Julianna Margulies of ER appears in a couple of episodes. 

The great tragedy with SCRUBS is that it remains something of a secret. The only comedy better than SCRUBS in the past few years has been ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT (most fans of one show tend to be a fan of the other as well, and the lead of each show appeared on the other, Zach Braff as the producer of the GIRLS WITH LOW SELF-ESTEEM series of videos on AR and Jason Bateman as a patient on SCRUBS) and while it won a large number of awards, its ratings were worse than SCRUBS. This show has decent ratings, but shockingly few awards. How terrible shows like EVERYBODY LOVES RAYMOND and the formerly good but now dull WILL AND GRACE beat it out for awards is mystifying. And how did it manage only one Emmy nomination? It was nominated for Best Comedy Series, but why wasn't Zach Braff nominated for Best Comic Actor and John C. McGinley and Donald Faison for Best Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series and Sarah Chalke for Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series? How is that possible? Much ink has been spilt on how the 2006 Emmy nominations have made less sense than any in memory (Lauren Graham yet again not nominated, though clearly the best comic actress on TV for at least five years and five vastly less talented women were nominated instead of her; LOST not nominated; no nominations for VERONICA MARS; Jason Lee not nominated for MY NAME IS EARL; neither Michael Chiklis, Hugh Laurie, nor James Gandolofini nominated for Best Actor, while Martin Sheen who was barely appeared in this year's WEST WING; while shows way, way, way, way past their prime like WILL AND GRACE and THE WEST WING nominated; and the list goes on) but Zach Braff's failure to be nominated while Charlie Sheen and Kevin James did is just one more reason not to take the Emmys seriously at all. At least the Golden Globes more or else get it right. 

Anyway, awards aside, and armed with the knowledge that the best shows are usually neglected by the Emmys (how many Emmy nods did BUFFY get despite most of the nation's best TV critics passionately begging each year for it to get the recognition it deserved), fans of the show will be delighted with Season Four and if you aren't a fan, you should be. But don't start with Season Four. Go back and do it right. Either buy or rent (I recommend buying--you'll want to watch this more than once) Season One, then work your way forward. Many pleasurable hours will result
