Screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's reality-bending work has become such a Hollywood staple that he is becoming more distinctive than the directors who give life to his wildly imaginative and solipsistic scripts. He dares to give dramatic form to nebulous psychological states that border on horror stories. Directed by Michel Gondry, this 2004 study in love and loss is no exception, as Kaufman takes the notion of a struggling relationship and inverts it into a manic piece of science fiction involving a medical procedure to scrub one's memory. At the same time, Gondry and Kaufman have injected a strong dose of humanism into this film by grounding it with characters that are relatable as much as they are quirky.

The labyrinth plot focuses on shy, taciturn Joel Barish, who is swept off his feet by the raucous, unstable Clementine. Much to his dismay after a particularly ugly fight, he discovers that Clementine has impulsively decided to erase all memory of her relationship with him through a medical company called Lacuna headed by the benevolent Dr. Mierzwiak. A renowned leader in his field of memory erasure, Mierzwiak treats the heartbroken Joel to the same procedure as Clementine's. However, Joel is overcome by the intensity of emotion from this act of reciprocation and starts rebelling against the deep consciousness treatment to regain his memories of Clementine. The surreal twists and turns that occur boggle the mind of the viewer but not in a way that alienates us from Joel's plight.

It helps that a sturdy cast has been recruited starting with a surprisingly subdued Jim Carrey as the depressed Joel. This is easily his most effective attempt at a straight dramatic role even though Gondry allows him to provide flashes of his manic personality when appropriate. Displaying no trace of her corseted Britishness as the bedraggled free spirit Clementine, Kate Winslet shows the right level of abandon and leavens it with her natural earthiness. Tom Wilkinson is his usual steady self as the somewhat remorseful Mierzwiak, while his spirited trio of assistants is played with relish by Kirsten Dunst, Mark Ruffalo and Elijah Wood. All three are fine with Dunst particularly affecting toward the end.

The looping narrative could have spiraled out of control had it not been for the stellar work by cinematographer Ellen Kuras, production designer Dan Leigh and editor Valdis Oskarsdottir, all combining to bring much-needed fluidity to initially incoherent scenes. The only fly in the ointment is Jon Brion's overly intrusive music. The 2004 DVD has several extras, the best of which is the consistently informative commentary track by Gondry and Kaufman, which helps explain some of the more bizarre plot turns. There are two featurettes - a standard ten-minute making-of short and a fifteen-minute conversation with Gondry and Carrey that borders on banal. Seven minutes of understandably excised scenes are included, as well as a creative music video of The Polyphonic Spree's "Night and Day" and a faux-commercial for Lacuna
