I'm the first to confess that I had never heard any of any of the actors starring in the 1951 Robert Wise gothic noir, The House on Telegraph Hill, but it doesn't matter, because all the actors are good, and combined with an extremely effective plot, the movie is a terrific tale of murder, deceit and assumed identities in post world war San Francisco. 

As was the fashion with many noir films of the time, The House on Telegraph Hill is told in flashback with a voice over from the heroine. She tells of her house that is empty and is up for sale, and one immediately assumes that something terrible has happened. However, the narrative soon jumps to Germany at the end of the War, and we meet Victoria Kopwelska (Valentina Cortese) is a Polish woman imprisoned in Belsen.

With her husband and family dead, Victoria tells the kindly American commander Major Marc Bennett (William Lundigan) that there's nothing for her back in Poland. Desperate to survive, Victoria learns that her best friend has family in the United States, and if they are ever freed, she promises to take Victoria to America with her. Her friend however, is killed shortly before American troops can liberate the camp. 

With nowhere to go, Victoria hatches a scheme to steal her friend's papers and sail to America, where she learns now the godmother to a young boy Chris (Gordon Gebert), as well as the heir to a sizable fortune, and a gorgeously gothic house high atop Telegraph Hill, following the death of her "aunt." Ensconced in the ostensible mansion, Victoria, now dressing in glamorous frocks and drinking expensive champagne marries the boy's guardian Alan Spender (Richard Basehart), partly out of desperation and partly out of the need for security.

As Victoria becomes a "mother" to the boy, she clashes with his governess Margaret (Fay Baker) and coincidently reconnects with Marc whom she met a Belsen, now a studly a playboy type lawyer.  All the adults are not as they seem: Marc has been making secret plans to get his hands on the money, and Victoria's arrival causes him to draft a new scheme.  Victoria begins to believe that her new sweetheart is up to no good. And then there's the Margaret, the furtive outsider and whether her allegiances to Chris are all they seem. 

The film is compelling, and tension-fuelled and beautifully shot in black and white. Cortese is especially good in one of her first American roles and as Victoria, she frantically tries to keep up her masquerade, yet through no fault of her own, she steadily becomes a victim of Alan's scheming. 

Of particular note are the stunning location shots of San Francisco. The main house is just beautiful and the scenes when Victoria is playing baseball with Chris offer stunning views of San Francisco Bay. The House on Telegraph Hill ultimately serves as one of the better noir thrillers - there's a runaway car, poisoned orange juice, an enigmatic and jealous housekeeper and a false identity. It all makes for a gripping and entertaining film. 

Victoria starts out as a victim, and although she schemes and lies her way into the house on Telegraph Hill, her ability to rise above the nefarious misdeeds enable her to achieve a kind of redemption for both her and Chris.  Mike Leonard April 06. 
