Born in Steventon, Hampshire in 1775, Jane Austen was one of two daughters of the Reverent George Austen and his wife Cassandra. She was educated in Oxford and in Southampton, finally attending a boarding school in the Abbey gatehouse in Reading, Berkshire. The environment provided by her home was conducive to writing and she often enacted plays for her family, something that gave her the opportunity to present her stories and develop the characters in depth. 

Jane Austen's works are imaginative, full of emotion and depicting relationships that transcend time. Jane Austen wrote about society, about propriety and about etiquette. She was highly critical of the snobbery with which the upper classes kept away from others. Her study of human flaws and prsonal relationships provide great material for the development of her characters.

Jane Austen wrote Pride and Prejudice in 1813 and it still enchants audiences all over the world. The first time I read this book, I read as a child, back in Cuba, "Orgullo y Prejuicio." 

The writings of Jane Austen shaped my perception of true love as I identified with the love between Elizabeth Bennet and her one and only, Mr. Darcy. With this BBC adaptation completed in 1996, I have been able to relive the experience of exposing myself to a classic, one of the best books ever written. With this BBC miniseries we feel as though we were reading the book, for the adaptation faithfully follows the author's writing. 

The filming is magnificent, offering us a view of gorgeous scenery, magnificent castles, and locations that bring the book to life, for we can see what we expected after reading the book. The love story presents the struggle of the times, as two individuals fall in love, regardless of class differences, or status, and yet, the antagonism and friction created as a result of said differences. Darcy is a wealthy single man who, upon meeting the family of Elizabeth, boisterous, non-polished, and simple, believes her to be beneath him. The meet at a dance where his best friend falls in love with Elizabeth sister, but Darcy thinks he knows Jane's heart not to be true to these emotions. Elizabeth overhears a conversation during the dance and feels insulted by the proud and distant Darcy, keeping her distance and yet, without her awareness, falling in love with him. Jane Austen is masterful at creating enough tension to keep us all in suspense as to the path these lives will take as some members of Elizabeth family make the wrong choices. 

The dialogue is almost verbatim to the book, making this series a true delight for those of us who identify with this work. Jennifer Ehle as Elizabeth and Colin Firth as Darcy provide magnificent interpretations of this timeless classic, keeping us all dreaming of ever encountering love of this magnitude in our lives. As with most DVDs that we own, we watch by selecting English subtitles, which enhances the viewing by allowing us NOT to miss a single word said by the characters. Who would want to miss a single word in this marvel of the English language? There is a documentary as an additional bonus, where interviews with cast members are included... simply awesome! Interviewed are:  Jennifer Ehle [Elizabeth], Colin Firth [Darcy]. We also get to see those who played Mary Bennet [Lucy Briers], Mr. Collins [David Bamber, Mr. Bingley [Crispin Bonham-Carter] and Mr. Wickham [Adrian Lukis]
