My wife and I, huge fans of `America's Next Top Model' and `Project Runway', were very excited about seeing this film.  Why it took us this long still baffles me, but as of Friday night we had the pleasure of seeing `The Devil Wears Prada' and let me just say that it was quite the pleasure.  Now, most if not all the praise has been heaped on the shoulders of Meryl Streep, and while she was outstanding, this film is more than just a Meryl painted canvas.  There are four brilliant performances in this film and they all are deserving of praise.

First is Anne Hathaway who plays Andrea Sachs, a young aspiring journalist who takes a job working as Miranda Priestly assistant at `Runway Magazine'.  Anne Hathaway proves with her performance that she's all grown up.  No, that's not to take away from her more adult roles in more adult films like `Havoc' and the masterpiece `Brokeback Mountain', but here Anne proves that she can do adult comedy, not falling back into her teen goofiness that made her famous in `The Princess Diaries' but keeping everything smart and mature.  She has enough poise and grace to match wits with Miranda, and she does so elegantly.

Next up is Emily Blunt who plays Emily, Miranda's first assistant (there are two, Andrea being the second).  Emily has worked her butt off to get to where she is, slaving for the unruly Priestly and it's all about to pay off with a trip alongside Miranda to Paris.  The only thing standing in her way is Andrea, for if Andrea fails miserably then it reflects poorly on Emily.  Emily Blunt turns out I think the best performance of the bunch for she has enough sass, enough attitude and enough wit to make her pop out from the screen and stand out no matter who is sharing the screen with her.

Stanley Tucci also does wonderfully here as Nigel, Miranda's second in command.  He is there to make sure everything is perfect, and also help Andrea adjust.  Stanley always has done great backup work, playing second hand man to just about everyone, but here he really makes his performance his own and owns it.  He delivers some of the funniest lines in the film but he never feels like the `token gay guy'...he's needed in this film, not filler, and he commands his scenes and really stands out amidst the crowd.

And then, of course, we have Meryl Streep who plays the ruthless tyrant known as Miranda Priestly.  What I was most impressed about was the way Meryl underplays every word, every emotion, every scene, which is not what I expected.  I really expected her to go all Glen Close and reincarnate Cruella but she didn't (thankfully) and instead turned out one of the most inspired performances of the year.  She must have had fun playing the snooty self absorbed and above all selfish editor-in-chief of `Runway'.  She lets us see inside her character briefly (when crying over another failed marriage) but her character is more about shutting off feeling in order to succeed and so we don't get to see the real Miranda because we're not supposed to.

Carried by these four brilliant performances `The Devil Wears Prada' is a fabulous film that will make you laugh and make you smile and will impress almost anyone.  The script is brilliantly adapted from Lauren Weisberger's novel, and while it's not an exact replica (are any adaptations these days?) it carries the same wit but smoothes things out to make it more approachable and, in my eyes, more enjoyable.  Bravo
