A hardcore legend in Mick Foley' wrestling career is spotlighted here on this DVD.  Foley will go down in history for being able to control the crowd, being violent & hardcore, and also being able to be one of the most loveable characters in wrestling.  This DVD is a great collection of violent matches involing Foley himself along with his famous promos & extra matches.

Disc One:
Cactus Jack vs. Big Van Vader - During a time where Vader was just killing his opponetts, Cactus Jack was able to hold his own and go toe to toe with Vader.  This also includes exclusive footage that was censored on TBS.

Chicago Street Fight: Cactus Jack & Maxx Payne vs. Nasty Boys - This was one of the "stiffest" matches I've ever seen as these guys were legitlity brawling & hitting each other with the weapons and you just see at one point Cactus get his head cracked with a shovel on the floor.  Honestly, one of the best Nasty Boys matches I've seen.

Cactus Jack vs. Sabu - This match was more about the post match brawl between the two than the match itself.  Foley admits before the match that the hype & reputation between these two set a standard that nobody could match.

Cactus Jack vs. Chris Candido - One of Cactus's best "wrestling" matches eventhough it's not really anything memorable.

Texas Death Match: Cactus Jack vs. The Sandman - Foley openily admits that this match wasn't pretty as Sandman got a concussion at the beginning & really threw everything off.  They would go on to have better matches (as seen on the ECW Cactus Jack DVD).

Cactus Jack & Raven vs. Terry Funk & Tommy Dreamer - The classic ECW wild weapons brawl as they had everything including the kitchen sink.  It would get sick as you see things like Cactus sliceing Funk's arm with glass.  With cameo's from Taz & Bill Alfonzo, this is worth watching again & again.

Cactus Jack vs. Mikey Whipwreck - Cactus' last match in ECW against the man he helped make a superstar.

Disc 1 Extras:
Post-Vader match interview - Interview a week after his match with Vader

Falls Count Anywhere: Cactus Jack vs. Sting - This match has commentary from Coach & Foley where they talked about his storytelling throughout the match & his time in WCW.  This was Cactus' best WCW match in his opinion and it really is.  Action all over the ringside area along with great inring storytellin (watch him work on Sting's ribs).

Cactus Jack spits on WCW Tag Team Championship belt - The promo Cactus did after this Sabu match showing that the WCW Tag Title didn't mean as much as his pride that he lost to Sabu.  This is followed by a Heyman promo regarding that match.

The "Cane Dewey" Promo - Foley's favorite promo done during this "anti-hardcore" stint in ECW where he talks about the fans making a sign suggesting that Sandman canes his 5 year old son.

"Anti-Hardcore" promo - Another promo where Foley talks down to the ECW fans for being so bloodthirsty.

Cactus Jack vs. Sabu - The Cactus/Sabu rematch that includes commentary from Foley & Coach.  This match is better quality (both in video & in ring action) than the previous one.

Mick Foley's ECW Farewell Speech - Foley says goodbye to the ECW fans.

"Jack"" Foley & Les Thornton vs. British Bulldogs - Mick's WWE debut that results in his having a dislocated jaw thanks to the Dynamite Kid.

WWE Confidential feature - Mick talks about all the charity work he did during his 18 month absence in WWE and what led to his coming back to WWE.

Hidden Easter Eggs:
Mick Foley jumps off the roof of his house (On disc one, go to the "Extras" menu, highlight "Main Menu" and press the left arrow twice.)

Dude Love Entrance Video (On disc one, go to the "Chapters" menu.  Highlight "Cactus Jack vs. Chris Candido" and press the right arrow.)

Disc 2
Introducting Mankind - One of the Mankind "dungeon" promos he did before his debut

Mankind vs. Shawn Michaels - This was Foley's best match of his career and probably the best match of 1996.  HBK's high flyin' lucha libre influenced style mixed with Mankind's hardcore daredevil style made for one hell of a match.

Falls Count Anywhere: Cactus Jack vs. Triple H - Tables, trash cans, and weapons galore in this brawl.  One of the best matches in RAW history
 
Mick Foley vs. Terry Funk - A throwback to their ECW brawls as both of these wrestlers are just using their own bodies are wrecking machines.  Stone Cold on commentary just adds to the craziness of this match.

Dude Love vs. Stone Cold - The best match in the history of Dude Love as it's another brawl all over ringside.  McMahon, Brisco, Patterson, and Undertaker all have cameos in this match.

Mankind vs. The Undertaker - Foley's most memorable performance as he takes a beating that you have to see to believe.

Mankind vs. The Rock - Foley wins the title for the first time with help from Stone Cold.  This match itself isn't as memorable as their Survivor Series match or their later matches like the Halftime Heat match.

Street Fight Match: Cactus Jack vs. Triple H - This is the match that catapulted Triple H into the bonified main event superstar that he is today.  Thumbtacks, barbed wire, and blood all over the place.

Disc 2 Extras: 
Mankind teasers - Early Mankind promos that focued on his missing ear

Music To My Ear - Another Mankind "dungeon" promo

Mind Games - This was a promo Mankind did before the Mind Games PPV where he insulted ECW (they were in Philidelphia) to insure the fans wouldn't cheer him.

Jim Ross interviews Mankind - This was the interview that slowly started Mankind's face turn.

The Birth of Mr. Socko - Mankind visits Mr. McMahon in the hospital

Mick and Al Snow in Vegas - They're stalked by a fan 

More Mick and Al in Vegas - Mick and Al ride the rides, join a lounge band and visit a gentleman's club 

Commissioner Foley & Kurt Angle - The Commish books a match 

Hidden Easter Eggs:
Chef Boyardee commercial (On disc two, on the "Chapters" menu, highlight "Shawn Michaels vs. Mankind" and press the left arrow twice.)

DX skit "Have A Bad Day" (On disc two, on the "Extras" menu, highlight "Birth of Mr. Socko" and press the right arrow twice.) 

HIGHLY RECOMMENDE
