Dracula.  How dare you call yourself a horror fan without even seeing it?  You don't have to like it, but damn it, you should at least see it.  You can thank Dracula for all the gothic imagery that's been used time and time again in movies throughout the years, right up to this very day.  You can also thank Dracula for all the goth chicks running around, and that's either a good or bad thing depending on your tastes.  Dracula's not my favorite movie from Universal's golden era, but I've seen it quite a few times in my life and will probably see it many more before I buy the farm.  Lugosi managed to create THE Dracula.  They even discuss this in the documentary on the disc, but even folks who have never seen the film before instantly get the image of Lugosi's Dracula in mind when someone brings the subject of Dracula up.  Even with all the different actors who've played the role over the years(some turning in wonderful performances, some not so wonderful), they all seem to be in Lugosi's shadow somehow coz he just WAS Dracula.  Lugosi gave a voice to Dracula.  Ever do a Dracula impersonation or hear someone else do one?  What voice did you(or they) use? Lugosi's of course.  However, I don't think I'd like this film half as much if it hadn't had been for Dwight Frye as Renfield.  Frye is rather unappreciated and never became well known outside the horror circle.  He is to the character of Renfield what Lugosi is to Dracula.  Sorry, Tom Waits just didn't cut the mustard for me.  This film is many years old and probably wouldn't be considered frightening by a five year old kid.  In fact, it most likely comes across as silly to younger folks with Lugosi's exaggerated stares, hand movements and dialogue.  Not to mention Frye's overacting as well.  But the fact of the matter is, this movie scared the pants off people in it's time.  When was the last time modern audiences saw a film that truely frightened them?  Who knows, and it's not likely to happen again in our rather desensitized society.  In fact, I doubt most modern moviegoers even have the attention span to sit through this 75 minute film.  Anyhow, you owe it to Bela, Dwight and yourself to check it out.  As for the other films in the set, it's kinda hit and miss, but none of them are bad by any means.  Apparently somewhere along the lines, Dracula fathered two kids(!) coz we have Dracula's Daughter and Son Of Dracula.  Neither movie is all that bad.  Dracula's Daughter actually tries to be a direct sequel to the original film with the daughter trying to rid herself of the vampire curse.  Dracula's son on the other hand seems to enjoy the vampire lifestyle.  Chaney makes a decent enough vampire, but this son didn't inherit his father's suaveness and charisma.  The spanish version is a really cool gem that almost seems more atmospheric than the american version.  House Of Dracula's kind of the odd one out as it's really a sequel to House Of Frankenstein, which itself is a sequel to Frankenstein Meets The Wolf Man.  House of Dracula is best viewed as a double feature with House Of Frankenstein.  Like the Frankenstein and Wolf Man sets, this one has an interesting documentary tracing Dracula from Bram Stoker's novel right up to the Frank Langella film version.  Also sliming his way into this set is Stephen Sommers flapping his gums again about how Dracula influenced his piece of crap Van Helsing movie.  Don't ask me why I watched this feature, maybe I was looking for a reason to get pissed.  Anyhow, with a price tag like this and five Universal classics, it certainly sold me.   
