I had two choices watching this movie...smile or laugh out loud. When I wasn't smiling I was laughing. Keaton's The General is a perfect introduction for those who may shy away from silent movies or who may think silent comics are too exaggerated and mannered. The story line is simple, but what Keaton does with it is genius. 

Johnny Gray (Buster Keaton) is an engineer for the Western and Atlantic Railroad. He has two loves, his engine, the General, and Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack), a fine Southern belle. When war starts, Johnny rushes to enlist but is rejected. He's more valuable to the South as a train engineer than he would be as a soldier. Trouble is, nobody tells him why he was rejected. Worse, Annabelle thinks he may be a coward, and tells him she doesn't want to see him again until he is in uniform. Just then northern spies secretly enter the town to steal the General and take it north, destroying bridges and lines along the way, while a Northern army moves south. Unknowingly, Annabelle Lee finds herself on the train and is kidnapped. Johnny sees the General chugging away and races after it, determined to bring back the General. When he realizes Annabelle Lee is held captive, his resolve knows to bounds.

For the rest of the movie we are on one of the cleverest, fastest, funniest chase movies ever filmed. Keaton creates slapstick situations and sight gags that not only are funny, but that always are in character and which always are part of the specific plot point. And when he rescues Annabelle and realizes how hopeless her Southern belle helplessness can be, his exasperation is matched only by his love. The General features a big cast, a major battle, fleeing armies, a failing dam and a spectacular moment when an engine tries to cross a burning bridge and everything collapses into a river gorge.

Keaton's timing and inventiveness are legendary; so is his risk-taking. He does all his own stunts and some of them were dangerous. In one, he is lying back on the engine's cow catcher while the train is moving at some speed forward. In the distance is a railroad tie across the tracks. Keaton has another railroad tie in his hands. At the last moment he tosses his tie so that the end hits the end of the other tie and they both bounce off the track just as Keaton on the cow catcher passes. This scene has no cutting. The two ties fly off as high as Keaton's head. He could have been killed; instead we laugh. It's amazing that in his older years Keaton could still walk. His body took incredible punishment for the laughs. Try falling hard backwards off a moving flatcar and landing on your back across railroad ties. His ingenuity is extraordinary. How do you build excitement out of an extended train chase? Both engines are behemoths and are on the same track. They can't pass each other. Keaton does it with endless bits of business. In fact, he does manage to reverse the chase at one point in an immensely clever moment combining logic and split-second timing.

What makes Keaton so funny and so contemporary is that he doesn't do double-takes. He barely reacts. But he's no stone-face. Keaton's characters are simply very serious fellows. Things happen to them. His characters don't react to events so much as they overcome them with honesty and good intentions.

This edition of The General comes from Kino Video and looks good. It includes two Keaton short films, The Playhouse (1921) and Cops (1922). In The Playhouse, Keaton portrays all the members of the cast, orchestra and audience in a stage show, including nine members of a minstrel act, the ladies in the audience and a trained chimp. In Cops, he finds himself in a police chase that is one amazing situation after another
