The scene where Eric Idle whines "Oh, you're no fun anymore!" is a deceptive one. 

If anything, these guys are even more fun than before. The second half of Monty Python's Flying Circus's first season is even more polished and mad than the first, continuing the tradition of short skits focused on complete insanity. 

In these episodes, we have: a serial-killer barber; lecherous art critics; an unfortunate man who tries to eat a cathedral, tunnel to Java and jump the English channel; Ken Shabby, every girl's dad's nightmare; thuggish old ladies; bloodthirsty librarians who want to hire a gorilla; camel-spotting; and prime ministers falling through the earth's crust.

The longest and most bizarre skit is one where people mysteriously start turning into Scotsmen and streaming north of the border. Soon "Scotland will be choked with SCOTSMEN," and England is pretty much abandoned. The culprits: tennis-playing, human-devouring blancmanges from the galaxy of Andromeda.

And, of course, the stuff that has become comedy legend: the scene where John Cleese tries to return a dead parrot to a pet store ("It's a stiff! Bereft of
life, it rests in peace!"), and the Lumberjack Song ("I cut down trees. I skip and jump/I like to press wild flowers/I put on women's clothing/And hang around
in bars...").

Of course, no mere description can do justice to the comic brilliance of these  dozens of skits. These five Brits (and one American, who did the little cartoons) created some of the most unabashed, naughty, nasty, and just plain weird comedy ever, which still influences everything from Saturday Night Live to author Jasper Fforde. 

And all of this by men who often dress up as the world's most unattractive girls, with only a tiny budget and minimal cast. The 70s production values are omnipresent, and they are decidedly unpolitically correct. But in a weird way, these only make it even funnier than it would have been otherwise -- the writing and acting are pure, raw, unrefined comedy.     
     
Probably the most memorable actors here are Cleese and Idle. Cleese does his psychotic shrieks better than anyone, as well as having that rubbery lanky body and howling monkey voice. And Eric Idle does a good job as everyone from a housewife to a wannabe mountain climber, while Michael Palin does a brilliant job as people who are timid or insane. 

By this point, the Monty Python guys had polished up their skits and reached a steady plateau of comic brilliance. In other words, it's funny and should be watched
