VCI Entertainment presents the original adventure restored to all it's theatrical glory "Long John Silver" (1954) (Dolby digitally remastered) (photographed in Eastman Color), the original "Pirates of the Caribbean" that started it all...the most colorful pirate of all time, roaring across a boundless sea of spectacle in full widescreen Cinemascope...Under director Byron Haskin, producer Joe Kaufmann, based on the characters of Robert Louis Stevenson, screenplay by Martin Rackin, music composed by David Buttolph...the cast include Robert Newton (Long John Silver), Kit Taylor (Jim Hawkins), Connie Gilchrist (Purity Pinker), Lloyd Berrell (Capt. Mendoza, 'El Toro'), Grant Taylor (Patch), Rod Taylor (Israel Hands (as Rodney Taylor), Harvey Adams (Sir Henry Strong), Muriel Steinbeck (Lady Strong), Henry Gilbert (Billy Bowlegs), John Brunskill (Old Stringley), Eric Reiman (Lanky pirate), Harry Hambleton (Big Eric), Syd Chambers (Ned Shill), George Simpson-Lyttle (Capt. Asa MacDougall (as George Simpson-Little), Tony Arpino (Mendoza pirate). . . . .our story has to do with the continuation of "Treasure Island" based on the chronicles of Robert Louis Stevenson...who is this rival known as the pirate Mendoza to Long John Silver...what plan does Silver have to rescue the governor's daughter...how can Jim Hawkins best serve Silver once again in obtaining a swift fast ship to return to the treasure that has been in the back of Silver's mind these past years.....there is a great deal of entertainment for the serious "film-buff"...all courtesy of VCI Entertainment, who in my humble opinion is the best there is in restoring early serials and features like this one.
 
SPECIAL FEATURES:
BIOS:
1. Robert Newton
Birth Date: 6/01/1905 - Shaftsbury, Dorset, England, UK
Died: 3/25/1956 - Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, California
2.  Kit Taylor
Birth Date: 1942 - Sydney, New South Wales, Australia
Died: Still Living
3.  Byron Haskin (Director)
Birth Date: 4/22/1899 - Portland, Oregon
Died:  4/16/1984 - Montecito, California

If you crave action, drama and plenty of adventure then this is the place for all of the above...if you enjoyed this feature check out another as VCI Entertainment presents "Tennessee Partner" (1955) (Dolby digitally remastered), featuring John Payne, Ronald Reagan and Rhonda Fleming is based on a Bret Harte writings as our story takes place in a gold mining town in California where gambler John Payne finds it easier to take money at the poker table than digging for gold...a stranger riding into town played by Ronald Reagan saves Payne...Reagan known as Cowpoke becomes Tennessee's partner....but the place is full of rough characters....the story lines are excellent with outstanding action scenes and production with over an hours worth of entertainment

Great job by VCI Entertainment for releasing the "Long John Silver" (1954), digital transfere with a clean, clear and crisp print...looking forward to more of the same from the ''50s vintage...order your copy now from Amazon or VCI Entertainment, stay tuned once again with a top notch film releases from VCI...so climb aboard  and get ready for some high adventure that only VCI Entertainment (King of the Serials) can deliver...just the way we like 'em!

Total Time: 106 mins on DVD ~ VCI Entertainment 8452 ~ (6/27/2006) 
