
 Director: Sam Wood
 Studio: Warner Home Video 
 Video Release Date: January 23, 1991 
 
 Cast:
 
 Clark Gable ... Brig. Gen. K.C. 'Casey' Dennis 
 Walter Pidgeon ... Maj. Gen. Roland Goodlaw Kane 
 Van Johnson ... TSgt. Immanuel T. Evans 
 Brian Donlevy ... Brig. Gen. Clifton I. Garnet 
 Charles Bickford ... Elmer Brockhurst 
 John Hodiak ... Col. Edward Rayton Martin 
 Edward Arnold ... Congressman Arthur Malcolm 
 Marshall Thompson ... Capt. George Washington Bellpepper Lee 
 Richard Quine ... Maj. George Rockton 
 Cameron Mitchell ... Lt. Ansel Goldberg 
 Clinton Sundberg ... Maj. Homer V. Prescott 
 Ray Collins ... Maj. Desmond Lansing 
 Warner Anderson ... Col. Ernest Haley 
 John McIntire ... Maj. Belding Davis 
 Moroni Olsen ... Congressman Stone 
 John Ridgely ... James Carwood 
 Michael Steele ... Capt. Lucius Malcolm Jenks 
 Edward Earle ... Congressman Watson 
 Mack Williams ... Lt. Col. Virgil Jackson 
 James Millican ... Maj. Garrett Davenport 
 Fred Datig Jr. 
 Bert Davidson 
 Dennis Dengate 
 Tay Dunn 
 Sam Flint ... Congressman 
 Don Garner 
 Don Haggerty ... Command officer 
 Henry Hall ... Congressman 
 Alvin Hammer ... Machine shop sergeant 
 Clarke Hardwicke 
 Holmes Herbert ... Chairman 
 David Holt 
 James Horne Jr. 
 Robin Hughes 
 John James ... Officer 
 George Backus 
 Colin Kenny 
 Marten Lamont ... RAF officer 
 William Leicester ... Chauffeur 
 Peter Martin ... Command sergeant 
 Gregg Barton ... Sergeant 
 Frank Mayo 
 John McGuire 
 Bill McIvor 
 George Melford 
 Howard M. Mitchell 
 Bill Neff 
 Barry Nelson ... Cumquat B-Baker crewman 
 George Offerman ... Waiter 
 William 'Bill' Phillips ... Jeep driver 
 Frank J. Scannell 
 Robin Short 
 J. Lewis Smith 
 Buddy Swan 
 William Tannen 
 Arthur Walsh ... Photographer 
 Douglas Walton 
 Harlan Warde 
 Wilson Wood 
 Jimmy Zaner 
 William Cabanne 
 Lane Allan 
 Joel Allen 
 Bruce Cowling ... Operations officer 
 
 During World War II the British Royal Air Force maintained nighttime bombing raids over Europe, while the United States Army Air Corps made large daylight raids. Since the Air Corps was clearly visible, their losses were heavy. American fighter cover did not have sufficient range to accompany the bombers, mainly the B-17 &quot;Flying Fortresses,&quot; mainly from the Eighth Air Force, all the way to their German targets and back, which made them highly vulnerable. We lost 50,000 men in the air over Europe during that war.
 
 This is the fictional story of some of the men who fought that air war.
 
 Brig. Gen. K.C. 'Casey' Dennis (Clark Gable) is in command of a bomber division composed of several groups attempting to destroy the aircraft plants in Germany that are producing the Messerschmidt 262 jet fighter (the first operational jet fighter in the Second World War). The German jet was much faster and better armed than our P-51 'Mustang', P-47 'Thunderbolt', or P-38 'Lightning', our three best escort fighters, and was causing massive losses in the air.
 
 Dennis was obstructed by higher ranking generals who were worried about the reaction of the politicians and newsmen who were reporting the high losses to the American public.
 
 The course of the war was, indeed, in reality, affected by just such considerations, as it is in every war. This is a far better film, and reflected the reality of that particular war far better than I expected. I appreciated it. It was a well-acted, well motivated drama.
 
 Joseph (Joe) Pierre
 author of Handguns and Freedom...their care and maintenance
 and other books
 

