RKO Radio Pictures present "BORN TO KILL" (1947) (92 mins/B&W) (Dolby digitally remastered) --- Starring Claire Trevor, Lawrence Tierney, Walter Slezak, Audrey Long & Phillip Terry --- Directed by Robert Wise and released in May 3, 1947, our story line and film, Uncompromising film noir which sees psychopath Tierney marry wealthy girl Long, only to feel more in common with the black sheep of the family, his wife's sister (Trevor). Deliciously dark and directed with enthusiasm by Wise before he'd made it big, Born to Kill is a genuine oddity which explores the dark side of sexuality without moralizing, with the bonus of a cracking murder plot to add some spice. Tierney pitches his performance just right ... The film sits well with all those minor noir classics the late 40's and early 50's with apparent ease: Wise's own "The Set-Up"; Anthony Mann's "Raw Deal" and the "T-Men", "Kiss Of Death", and Ray's masterly debut, "They Live By Night".

Under Robert Wise  (Director), Herman Schlom  (Producer), Eve Greene  (Screenwriter), James Gunn  (Book Author), Richard Macaulay  (Screenwriter), Robert de Grasse  (Cinematographer), Constantin Bakaleinikoff  (Musical Direction/Supervision), Paul Sawtell  (Composer (Music Score), Les Millbrook  (Editor), Albert S. D'Agostino  (Art Director), Walter E. Keller  (Art Director), Sid Rogell  (Executive Producer), Darrell Silvera  (Set Designer), John Sturtevant  (Set Designer), Edward Stevenson  (Costume Designer), Russell A. Cully  (Special Effects) - - - - the cast includes Lawrence Tierney  (Sam Wild), Claire Trevor  (Helen Trent), Walter Slezak  (Arnold Amett), Phillip Terry  (Fred Grover), Audrey Long  (Georgia Staples), Elisha Cook, Jr.  (Marty Waterman), Isabel Jewell  (Laury Palmer), Esther Howard  (Mrs. Kraft), Kathryn Card  (Grace), Tony Barrett  (Danny), Grandon Rhodes  (Inspector Wilson), Jason Robards, Sr.  (Conductor), Netta Packer  (Mrs Perth), Sammy Shack  (Crap Dealer), Philip Warren  (Chauffeur), Tommy Noonan  (Bellboy), Napoleon Whiting  (Porter), Ruth Brennan  (Sally), Sayre Dearing  (Crap Dealer), Jean Fenwick  (Margaret Macy), Lee Frederick  (Desk Clerk), Ellen Corby  (2nd Maid), Demetrius Alexis  (Maitre d'Hotel), Al Murphy  (Cab Driver), Sam Lufkin  (Crap Dealer), Beatrice Maude  (Cook), Ben Frommer  (Delivery Boy), Perc Launders  (Detective Bryson), Martha Hyer  (Maid)  - - - - - Film noir is a cinematic term used primarily to describe Hollywood crime dramas that set their protagonists in a world perceived as inherently corrupt and unsympathetic...Hollywood's classic film noir period is generally regarded as stretching from the early 1940s to the late 1950s...Film noir of this era is associated with a low-key black-and-white visual style that has roots in German Expressionist cinematography, while many of the prototypical stories and much of the attitude of classic noir derive from the hard-boiled school of crime fiction that emerged in the United States during the Depression...the term film noir (French for "black film"), first applied to Hollywood movies by French critic Nino Frank in 1946, was unknown to most of the American filmmakers and actors while they were creating the classic film noirs..the canon of film noir was defined in retrospect by film historians and critics; many of those involved in the making of film noir later professed to be unaware at the time of having created a distinctive type of film ... featuring top performances from the '40s and '50s with outstanding drama and screenplays, along with a wonderful cast and supporting actors to bring it all together ... another winner from the vaults of almost forgotten film noir gems

SPECIAL FEATURES BIOS:
1. Lawrence Tierney
Date of Birth:  15 March 1919 - Brooklyn, New York
Date of Death:  26 February 2002 - Los Angeles, California

2.  Claire Trevor  (aka: Claire Wemlinger)
Date of Birth:  8 March 1910 - New York, New York
Date of Death:  8 April 2000 - Newport Beach, California

3.  Robert Wise (Director)
Date of Birth:  10 September 1914 - Winchester, Indiana
Date of Death:  14 September 2005 - Los Angeles, California

Hats off and thanks to Les Adams (collector/guideslines for character identification), Chuck Anderson (Webmaster: The Old Corral/B-Westerns.Com), Boyd Magers (Western Clippings), Bobby J. Copeland (author of "Trail Talk"), Rhonda Lemons (Empire Publishing Inc), Bob Nareau (author of "The Real Bob Steele") and Trevor Scott (Down Under Com) as they have rekindled my interest once again for Film Noir, B-Westerns and Serials --- looking forward to more high quality releases from the vintage serial era of the '20s, '30s & '40s and B-Westerns ... order your copy now from Amazon where there are plenty of copies available on VHS, stay tuned once again for top notch action mixed with deadly adventure --- if you enjoyed this title, why not check out VCI Entertainment where they are experts in releasing B-Westerns and Serials --- all my heroes have been cowboys!

Total Time: 92 min on DVD ~ Turner Home Video ~ (7/05/2005)
