Tihs DVD truly has incredible camerawork, and fully illustrates the intelligence and beauty of dolphins, but some things people don't realize about dolphins kept in captivity need to be told.  PLEASE take the time to read this.

Many dolphins you see in aquariums and swim-with programs and circuses around the world often come from brutal drive hunts, during which dolphins are rounded up into very tight nets concealing them, and are dragged ashore making it easier to violently wrestle them into slings.  These dolphins captured, while they may be smiling in appearance (which is the way their faces were genetically designed), are ripped away from their beloved podmates and torn from their environment.  How would you like to be a dolphin who once lived in a vast sea of blue and then suddenly be taken into a shallow pool of water, forced to live with the loud sounds of people screaming, the filtration system running, and very little space to swim?
In the process of capturing dolphins for human entertainment, many die in the process.  Stress severely affects a dolphin's body, and many suffer irreperable damage to their hearts in the execution.  On top of that, dependent calves (baby dolphins) who have spent the entirety of their lives with their mothers, often get torn from them, leaving them helpless, even if they are released.  

While you can clearly see in the film that many of the dolphins appear to be having fun, would it not be too much to consider the fact that they might miss their former companions?  Are they really happier stuck in a cement tank forced to perform tricks in order to be fed?  Keep this in mind the next time you visit an aquarium or swim-with program.  For dolphins captured in Japan, the industry has been given permits to slaughter a number of them needlessly in the process by the government.

I believe this film spends too little time in the beginning addressing the human threat to dolphins.  Over 7,000,000 dolphins have died at the hands of humans since the late 1950s.  I think a few minutes at the beginning of the film doesn't nearly suit the need to inform the audience of the issue.  Tuna fisheries, whose products are falsely labeled as "dolphin-safe" (there are established 'KILL MINIMUMS' now for tuna companies) need to be exposed.  Intentional killings in Japan (especially), South America, and all over the world need to be publicized.  But I also understand that this is a family film, mainly, but I think it is also important to inform young viewers of the problems dolphins face with humans.  They are the ones who will need to make the difference in the future.

Please just remember this next time you watch this film.  While dolphins are valued by many, they are targeted by many as well as a way of easy money-making.

This film is more of a sugar-coated production, although it certainly is beautiful, as are the dolphins seen in the flim.  I would recommend a film entitled "Dolphin Defender" for those who seek some informative footage behind the scenes to what really happens to dolphins in drive hunts.



