Ray Sawyer (Rick Cramer), Agnes Bruckner (Eden), Laura Ramsey (Rachel), Jonathan Jackson (Eric), and D.J. Cotrana (Sean) star in this scary and bloody slasher movie.

Eric and Eden are going through any typical teen romance; going steady one minute, broken up the next.  Eden works at a local truck stop as a waitress. One evening, Ray pulls into the truck stop to get some food.  Known as the local nut case, Ray has few friends and owns a filling station on the edge of town.  Later that same evening, Ray comes upon Eric and Eden on a lonely bridge.  Swerving to miss Eric's jeep, Ray instead crashes into an on-coming car.  The impact of the crash sends the car slamming through the guardrail of the bridge.  The car is now teetering precariously on the side of the bridge. Ray jumps from his truck and goes to the aid of the woman inside the car.  After pulling her to safety, Ray goes back inside to retrieve a suitcase that the woman told him about.  However, both Ray and the car tumble over the side of the bridge and into the water below.  To make matters worse, the suitcase is full of poisonous snakes, who immediately begin striking at Ray.  All that can be heard are Ray's screams as the car sinks.

Ray's body is pulled from the water and taken to the local morgue.  But it doesn't remain there for long.  It seems that the woman in the car was a Voodoo priestess, and the snakes were used to "cleanse" people by drawing the evil out of them.  Now, the evil venom is flowing through Ray.  Now begins a bloodbath of carnage as Ray, possessed by the power of the evil venom flowing through him, begins to stalk unsuspecting victims.  One by one, he exacts his revenge on Eden's friends until only Eden remains.  Who will win this final showdown; Ray or Eden?

I've always been a big fan of slasher-type films, and characters like Freddy from the "Nightmare on Elm Street" series, as well as Jason from "Friday the 13th".  Ray Sawyer fits the mold of the typical slasher perfectly. The motives are the same; kill as many teenagers as possible, and Ray succeeds in this very well.  I thought the story involving voodoo was well-conceived.  The special effects were good, too.

I recommend this movie to horror and slasher fans.  Although the movie is short (only about 80 minutes), there's lots of slashing in a short amount of time.  If you enjoy a good slasher flick, then don't miss "Venom". 
