When Paul McCartney goes on tour to connect with his beloved audience, it usually for more than just the average "Oh, I have an album to promote, let me go on tour".

His 1989 tour was Paul's first time onstage in many years, and he used it to show he not only still had the energy and vigor he posssessed during his Beatles & Wings years, but he also still was able to create a deep, personal bond with his audience like few if any other artists can. This spawned the excellent double live album "Tripping The Live Fantastic" as well as the exciting concert movie "Get Back".

His 2002 American tour was a chance for Paul to use the healing power of music to ease the seething sadness caused by the horrific attacks on September 11th. The cd and dvd "Back In The U.S." were released to commemorate this wonderful act of musical philanthropy.

In 2005, Paul did something that had long been awaited since The Beatles first hit. Ever since The Cold War, The Beatles were a huge phenemenon in Russia. However, there Communist government considered their music alien propoganda, and their music was outlawed. Still, the Russian citizens got their hands on The Beatles' recordings any way they could, and they felt a great deal of inspiration from them, making them belive there was a free world beyond the Iron Curtain.

Over 40 years later, Paul ventured to Moscow to perform a historic concert in Red Square to hundreds of thousands of devoted fans who had been waiting all their lives for this moment. The concert was filmed and was aired on A & E as "Paul McCartney - Live In Red Square".

This is quite simply an excellent concert movie. Paul and his band are in top form. Paul clearly wanted to give the Russian fans a night they'd never forget, pouring his heart and soul as well as his boundless energy into old warhorses such as "Band On The Run", "Live And Let Die", "Back In The U.S.S.R.", "Hey Jude" and "Let It Be", as well as performing rarely heard numbers such as "Two Of Us", "I've Just Seen A Face" and "Let 'Em In".

Mixed in with the live performances are commentaries by scholars and fans on how The Beatles' music had such a connection with the Russians during the Cold War, and why they still remained so popular. These interviews manage to come off as insightful and entertaining rather than annoying and unneccessary, even when they occasionally cut off certain numbers.

As an added bonus, we get another concert of Paul in St. Petersburg. This is once again an excellent, energetic and fun show that shows why Paul to this day remains quite possibly the most beloved man in the music world.

The sound and picture quality are excellent, and the special features are a nice treat. "Live In Red Square" is an excellent dvd that belongs in everyone's collection
