Nowadays, Hollywood just wouldn't have the balls to make a film that spits in the face of terrorism, unless it was an easy target that doesn't spit back (aka, America and it's 1st Amendment).  This film harkens back to the day when people wished our country's foreign policy was a bit more leathery.  Well...ya got it now!  At the very least, a film like this would piss off the surrender-monkeys in the jackass party, not only for what they would see as a glorification of nationalistic jingoism, but for the villification and slaughter of Stalinistic, Castro-like communists that they would only want to capitulate and make peace with.  Makes one wonder if the lefty Glenn Close now hates herself for acting in such a film.  What would they say to a film like this?  Unfortunately, there's plenty of room for criticism in this movie, aside from the political implications therein.  Some (arguably, if not all) of the special effects seemed a bit hokey (hence the 4 stars instead of the five).  I think if anyone wanted to be bipartisan about anything, it would have to be the 90's style CGI, especially the plane crash.  At best, one might go so far as to say it was "cute."  And what can a guy like me say to that?  Even as I write this review, scarcely 2 days have past from the red letter day in the struggle against terrorism, in which the ruthless terrorist leader of al Qaida in Iraq, al-Zarqawi, caught himself a couple of 500 lb. bombs with the use of his house.  For those who want to keep westerners depressed and demoralized (not a far stretch from "fear-mongering," right?) in the fight against terrorism, this deals a disappointing blow to those who hate America.  What's worse, they can't seem to ban a film exalting American nationalism such as "Air Force One" from those who wish to see it (oh no!).  And just 2 years ago the same whiners were bitching about "The Passion."  Sucks to have the 1st amendment apply to every American and not just the idealistic "intellectual" few, doesn't it
