  
Is there anything more American then apple pie, baseball or a good Rock Hudson/Doris Day Film? It's always been such a treat to curl up with them and the third essential player, Tony Randall. Rock is always doing something to infuriate Doris. He's her worst nightmare. And what's more, he pretends to be someone else that Doris falls for head over heals until the gig is up. Then she's out for revenge, but love always wins out. Ahhhh such feel good, laugh out loud stuff.
 
So in this one from 1961 "Lover Come Back", Madison Ave is the setting. Advertising is the game of Carol Templeton and rival Jerry Webster. But Jerry is such a cad and a playboy. He steals big clients right from under her by wining and dining them, throwing raucous parties and getting the girl for them. Carol on the other hand, does things a little different. She's virtuous and business like. When he trumps her cards once too often, she plans to get a little underhanded herself. Trying to win over the scientist that is going to invent a new product for our guy Rock, Doris, who has never met Webster(as is always the case), mistakes him for...you guessed it..the shy, retiring, needy nerdy scientist. Jerry, in true form goes along with it, and tries to woo Carol into his bed. And the fun continues...
 
Doris is marvelous. Watch her face. So many different emotions she goes through. From being Exasperated, to being in love, she does it all. She's simply a joy. Rock matches her perfectly with his pretenses, and has a way with the dialogue that just says Rock!  As mentioned Tony Randall is always the third part to the equation that makes these films such classic fun. Here he is the President of the ad firm and Jerry's boss, but hasn't a clue as to what's going on. He does this quite well.Meanwhile, the fun doesn't end with Doris and Rock. The race to make a new product, VIP! is causing quite a few explosions and when the product is finally ready for testing...well you just have to see for yourself!

The rest of the cast is quite a roll call. Ann B Davis, Delbert Mann, Donna Douglas(the beautiful Ellie Mae Clampett), Edie Adams, Jack Albertson, Jack Oakie, Joe Flynn, Richard Deacon,wow... the list goes on.
The transfer to DVD looks great. Picture clear, colors good.The film is presented in Anamorphic widescreen 1.85:1 The sound is in Dol Dig 2.0(MONO), but this isn't an action flick, so it's fine.There are caption in English(a nod to Universal there), subtitles in Spanish and French. There are no features of any kind other than scene selections.

This film is a treasure from the 60's vault. Doris' outfits alone are smashing, and NYC in the 60's too. This film has no rating on the case, but I would say PG. There are some adult situations, but all done in tasteful fun(can you imagine Doris Day, doing anything else, even if she tried?).The other two films that this trio delight us with is "Pillow Talk" and "Send Me No Flowers"

Well, I'm off to watch another Day/Hudson/Randall film. I've got my bowl of VIP and ready for a fun evening.....Lauri
