"American Gigolo" stars Richard Gere of a high priced male prostitute.  He is coasting along with his rich southern Cailifonia clients until one of them is murdered.  When he is considered the main suspect, he goes on the run, with his only friend being the wife of a politician.  At the begining he tells people that he is a moral man,  for example, he dosn't service gays, more on that in a moment.  It is interseting to note that Gere also played in a movie about hookers a decade later in "Pretty Woman" and it made a star out of Julia Roberts.  But that is where the similarities end.  This is a much darker story about hypocracy.  When he falls under suspicion all his clients that liked him before all distance themselves from him.  In the end, he finds himself a hypocrit, because in order to get an aliby he is willing to do anything job; gays, S and M, anything to avoid jail.  The only love story here is about him and the politician's wife (Lauren Hutten).  It is complicated by the fact that he will not let anyone in close to him, even for his own protection.  For all it's darkness there is one funny scene.  Richard Gere is called in for a line up at the police department.  He tells the other men in the line up that he got paid, and the others get angry and cause a scene, averting the attention off of Gere.  This is a really good movie as an examination of society's attitude toward sex.  This film was written and directed by Paul Schrader, if that is why it seems like a less brutal companion to "Taxi Driver".  Richard Gere is wooden, but his character is cold and icy, so that approach is right.  Lauren Hutten is alright as the bored housewife of a powerful man; she seems sincere in wanting to help Gere.  But I thought the standout performance was Bill Duke as the slezzy street pimp who is quiet but menacing (as oppose to Gere's 'Madam'), but also provides the warning to Gere at the beginning that his 15 minutes of fame are running out.  And another future "Pretty Woman" player is present; Hector Elanzo.   He plays the detective on Gere's trail; but he is slimy and rather unlikable here.  Well worth your time, but for adults only
