Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a clever, insightful, and wicked film! It is not just another teen movie, though to the casual observer it might be. No, it is a time capsule into the SoCal lifestyle that pervaded much of the films of the late 70's and 80's as well as it is a time capsule into the mindset of teenagers all over the U.S. circa 1982.

Sean Penn (whom I'm not a big fan of) as Jeff Spicoli is truly inspired! I find myself to this day trying to imitate his dead on surfer takes. What an awesome character. When he says, "You d*ck!" to Ray Walston's Mr. Hand (another inspired and forever memorable character), you just wanna roll on the floor!

Jennifer Jason Leigh is nicely sweet and innocent as a junior high girl struggling with sexuality. Phoebe Cates as the girl who believes herself to be in the only truly "mature" relationship anyone has (with a college boy) is fresh and believable. Judge Reinhold as Leigh's older brother is inspired.
Mike Damone is a sleaze and a great character (if only he really believed in himself as much as he wants others to).

In fact, this film boasts huge numbers of young actors who went on to become stars. The script by a very young Cameron Crowe is brilliant!

Fast Times came out at roughly the same time as The Last American Virgin and several years after Rock and Roll High School. Neither of those other films is anywhere on par with Fast Times. At times, light and airy, Fast Times carries a serious "message" that teen agers are truly finding their way in life in the best way they know how. It is somewhat inspired that we never actually see the parents of any of the kids in the film. The adults we see are those with whom they interact with outside the home: truly, teenagers feel that their young lives are more affected by people other than their parents.

While Last American Virgin approached some of the same topics that Fast Times does, it did it in a more sinister way. Fast Times doesn't gloss over teen age problems, but puts them in perspective of how the teenager his/herself deals with them.

Yes, it's a comedy and yes it is funny, but it is not just a film for kids
