I have read many reviews stating that this remake is inferior to the orginal version of 1968. Granted, that version is marvelous. 

I have bought both versions and love them both. OK, it is difficult not to compare when watching. 

BUT I can't help wondering: if this version would have been the first I or anybody watched instead of the 1968 version, if people would have been complaining about that version?

I can have different versions of Vivaldi's four seasons can't I? Actually for those among us who love classical music and opera it is quite common to have several versions of the same musical piece and enjoy them all (and I do understand that people can have preferences for one or the other). We would never say this or that piece is a remake of that version, would we? I have gone to the opera numerous times and watched Don Giovanni three times. Every time with different performers. Remake? Absolutely not.

I think that the only reason one would have made this version of lion in winter is the wish to make it, because is such a great play. So, logically this would not be a remake!

Why can't we watch this version for what it is and let go of the other (splendid 1968) version when doing so? 

That done, I must say I understand why Alais is in love with king Henry. Patrick Stewart is a very fine actor and has magnificent voice which he uses  very well. He is a  very good match to Close's queen. I did not care for Richard, I thought he was not commanding enough, bit whiny. I think John is a difficult part to play to say the least and I didn't care for him either, too much the idiot. Geoffrey on the other hand is really conniving and very good. King Philippe: too much a boy, although he has moments when the interaction with king Henry makes him interesting. Alais:good enough. 

Which of the versions do I prefer? that is difficult. I have highly enjoyed both. I think the 1968 version has a sharper edge because of Hepburn and I prefer her to Close. This version has a more emotional and sometimes romantic (Alais and Henry) approach. 

I definitely prefer Stewart to O'Toole, who seemed too young for the role. I liked the way Stewart made us see Henry's  self confindence in his plans and his pleasure in manipulating and scheming (that is, until the end, when things turn out the wrong way and you see hem falling apart). O'Toole had a very serious approach all the time.

On the other hand: Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton were both splendid. I think overall that the 1968 version has a better supporting cast. 

Which of the versions I watch, depends on the mood I am in. I think they are both good in their own way.
