That is what this film meant to me, looking at the kaleidiscope of life as it passes by, so sweet, so unsatisfying at times yet so perfect when the right person is there.

This film is a poem to Paris and the passing of youth, with the hope of recapturing that one love, which when found engraves itself so deeply that it is like a hinge in the mind, always present, always remembered, always desired.  

The two lovers meet, seemingly a lifetime away from when they met by chance on a train, and with instant rapport they tell eachother in the space of a few hours everything that happened since they met 10 years earlier.    They see how much they meant to eachother, how much they still could, like two pieces of a puzzle that fit.  

This is a genuinely beautiful film, more mature than the last one, much sadder and in many ways better and more realistic.  It opened that sense of mystery that I have known, in life and its surprises and potential in the luck of finding true intimacy.  

Julie Delphy is one of those rare women who gets more beautiful as she ages.  She has become a sad person, stalled in relationships, though she is living up to her ideals.  Ethan Hawke is struggling to grow with his success, in a down phase of his marriage and needing their friendship very badly.  Their relationship, so brief, rings totally true, in its humor, commitment, and occasional awkwardness.  

Perhaps this is sentimental, but I think I have known love like this.  It is an image more in my mind than the person perhaps, but our friendship is as deep as it was when we met nearly 35 years ago.  Some people simply pierce thru to the heart, earning a permanent place no matter who they later marry or what they become.  It is an extraordinary sympathy for one another that is beyond sex (well, maybe not too far beyond...).

Highest recommendation.  This succeeds brilliantly at a snapshot in time, with an entire history implied behind it, like the greatest art.  And I do think that the ending is ambiguous and must be interpreted, which is also so very much like real life
