"The Talons of Weng Chiang" is a wonderfully creepy pseudo-historical tale full of mood, atmosphere, and an unusual amount of violence for "Doctor Who"--almost as if departing producer Philip Hinchcliffe was taking a parting shot at his critics on his way out. But it's not all gloom and doom. This storyline is a fine mix indeed of good old "Doctor Who" humor at its funniest as well as thrilling "Doctor Who" adventure at its most gruesome. The dank and dour city streets and slums of late-19th century London make a grim backdrop for a tale of manipulation, madness, and serial murder (technologically refined cannibalism, really), and yet the Doctor's many clever quips and Leela's naively astute observations on "civilized" Victorian life keeps the viewer laughing throughout, and the main villain's second-hand man, Li-Hsen Chang, has some incredibly witty one-liners as well.

Li-Hsen Chang himself is a fascinating character, delightfully entertaining on stage and yet cold and ruthless in his service to "Weng-Chiang," a stranded, time-traveling dictator from the future who has deceived Chang into believing he's a deity from the Taoist pantheon. Chang's paranormal powers, foremost of which is hypnotism, definitely evoke the late Victorian fascination with mesmerism (see the poster advertising his show) and serve to mark him as a clever echo of the evil Fu Manchu characters so much the stock villains of pulp fiction, and yet he's also a tragic figure in many ways--a healthy, innocent rural farmer whose simple religious beliefs were abused by an evil man--uprooted and given extraordinary powers along with refinement and authority by his "god" and yet irrevocably corrupted in the process. In many ways this works as a dark counterpoint to the Pygmalion-style educational program the Doctor's putting Leela through, to her annoyance.

If Li-Hsen Chang is an interesting and complex adversary though, the same can't really be said for his master, Weng-Chiang himself. He's a rather unremarkable two-dimensional villain, I'm afraid, complete with hokey bad-guy laugh and over-the-top acting. Perhaps the writers were going for a sort of campy effect, but if so, they overdid it just a bit. At times too he's just more annoying than frightening--every time the ever loyal Li-Hsen is faithfully going about their nefarious business only to be thwarted by the Doctor, Weng-Chiang throws a fit, savagely berating the poor guy on and on ad nauseum. On this score, Weng-Chiang is less evil incarnate than a bad reminder of some dysfunctional manager at one's workplace. It doesn't help either that he bears no resemblance whatsoever to the clean-cut bureaucratic deity of education whom he's presumably impersonating, so that the whole idea comes across as altogether somewhat unconvincing.

All in all, though, this is an enjoyable adventure. The Doctor is at his sleuthing best, Leela shines as a displaced neolithic warrior, and a fine complement of vividly memorable supporting characters keep the story moving right along in an entertaining fashion, all of them brought to life by a fine script and even finer acting. And anyway, Li-Hsen more than makes up for Weng-Chiang's deficiencies as an interesting villain for most of the show, while the cyborg assassin Mr. Sin is genuinely creepy (especially if you have a phobia of ventriloquist dolls). So this is a fine storyline altogether as long as you take some of it with a grain of salt--or a dash of soy sauce, rather
