How did he have the time to write such a picture, to co-direct it, to act in it and after everything else to write its score?  Noel Coward's energies, always remarkable, were redoubled during the second World War, and it must have seemed like another excuse to show off his patriotism, which he wore like a second skin despite his slummy upbringing.  IN WHICH WE SERVE is still worth watching, but it's nowhere as appealing as either CAVALCADE or THIS HAPPY BREED, and its focus on the "life and death of a ship" (the HMS Torrin) is strangely monomaniacal, almost constructivist.  Over and over you see unattributed bare arms hammmering away, symbols of brute strength like something from a Soviet film.  The ship goes up.  The ship goes down.  A new ship rises out of the water.  And in between Coward tries his hardest to keep you interested in the lives of the men clinging to the lifeboat, till our interest settles on three--Bernard Miles as Hardy, with his striking, long, hatchet face and the deep voice that goes with it--he should have played Ichabod Crane--John Mills as Blake, a tiny little pipsqueak who's feisty in the standard Mickey Rooney-Jimmy Cagney manner, and Noel Coward himself as Captain Kinross, tranquil with class privilege and, in the background, his glamorous marriage to the ineffable Celia Johnson (so beautiful till she opens her mouth and those bits of teeth wobble around on her gums).

Hitchcok's LIFEBOAT had the same concentration on a handful of downed and wet actors playing nautical, but without Coward's complicated flashback structure.  Coward stalwarts Joyce Carey and Kay Walsh show up as the love interests for Miles and Mills respectively--Carey, in this movie and in BRIEF ENCOUNTER as well, treated very unusually for the 1940s as a woman not in her first youth, nor good-looking in any way, who's given nevertheless a fullblooded and physical romantic interest.  She must have kissed the ground every time Noel Coward walked on it.  Who else would have written such roles for her?

The movie is trying indeed when it goes "serious," and yet that's half the fun of it, seeing how often Coward plays the "race" card--"we are an island race" indeed.  I teared up, of course I did, during the Blitz as the V-1 rockets drop bomb after bomb on London households, leading to the death of several favorite characters, and again when Coward leads his naval boys into Dunkirk and out of it again with a panoply of half-nude British soldiers sipping tea or what looks like an enormous vat of Kool-Aid.  Outside of these scenes, however, the movie is marred by its agitprop and by David Lean's tiresomeness, in showing everything at such a glacial pace.  

PS, the film was shot by Ronald Neame who later became a director himself and whose "masterpiece," THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE, sometimes seems like a shot by shot remake of the disaster sequences of IN WHICH WE SERVE
