This is an imaginative take on the Jack and the Beanstalk story. While it was apparently made for kids, the story maintains enough complexity to keep adults interested (I'm 19). Plus as a female, I appreciate the fact that it's one of the few stories where (possible spoiler) the damsel (who's in a different kind of distress than other fairy tale women) rescues Prince Charming.  Well-acted, it features some great chemistry between Sara and Modine.  

But I still can't give it 5 stars.  Here's why (spoilers ahead):

1. I'm no math person but why couldn't the writers be consistent with when Jack's dad died? One minute, they say he died 20 years ago but then they say he died when Jack was 14. Since Jack is 37, it shows that the writers can't do simple addition. Couldn't they just take two seconds to do the math? 

2. How the hell does Siggy know about goose and harp? I got the impression from Wilhemina that Jack's dad didn't believe the story of the original Jack. But apparently, Jack's dad told Siggy not to tell him about the family's dark secret until he was ready. I wish there was a more believable explanation for Siggy knowing a lot more than he should. 

3. If Siggy is smart enough to know the all the Robinson secrets, I think he should be able to catch on to the fact that Jack is in love with Ondine fairly quickly. I always wondered why he didn't try to kill Ondine when he was so against Jack having an heir.  I understand that they had a time limit to the movie and maybe it would have been a bit scary for the little ones. Don't get me wrong, I don't want Ondine to die.  I wanted nothing less than a happy ending for her and Jack.  But shooting her (or at least threatening her) would have been a great way to kick up the tension/suspense. 

4. Siggy's accent and mannerisms were an attempt at comedy that
completely fell flat. It was not funny and was a bit gratuitous.

But if you're a fan of romance, adventure, or just feel-good movies in general, those things shouldn't keep you from enjoying this film.  Don't think too much about the plot holes- you'll go insane if you do
