

This thoughtfully prepared collection of 3 Buster Keaton movies, 2 shorts from early and late in his pre-feature period, and the feature Seven Chances, show a wide range of comedy styles, from slapstick, to more refined visual humor, to what we would today call situation comedy, where laughs come from unusual or embarrassing encounters. 

The earliest in the collection, "Neighbors" from 1920 is in some way the most satisfying of the set, although Keaton had not yet here fully developed his mature style of humor. Here there is still a stylistic resemblance to the earlier association with Fatty Arbuckle. The backyard love affair, for example, that opens the film resembles Arbuckle's 1915 classic "Fatty's Plucky Pup". In Neighbors there is more story, revolving around the standard theme of feuding parents, and the eventual need for the couple to elope. There is sweetness, youthful energy, and innocence in the entire movie, as well as great acrobatics, including the innovative climactic escape involving two levels of men being carried on the shoulders of other men. 

The Balloonatic (1923), near the end of the period in which Buster was making short films, is less rich in comic ideas and lacks the energy and freshness of the earlier film. There is almost no slapstick but rather visual humor involving being trapped in a balloon and trying to survive in the wild and win an unwilling girl. Keaton loves using bodies of water and other objects of nature for comedic props, and this film is full of them. Still, for once Keaton seems uninspired, perhaps making this film to fulfill a contract requirement rather than for love of the story.

The feature in the set, Seven Chances, from 1925, is based on a single theme: Buster, the rich boy down on his luck, must get married by the end of the day in order to inherit 7 million dollars. This absurd premise induces, for much of the film, a Hal Roach-like situation comedy rather than the visual, acrobatic style that is more associated with Keaton, as Buster is cornered into continuously proposing marriage to strangers. The variety of embarrassing rejections that Buster must endure has funny moments, but may not satisfy all of Buster's fans. The climax, however, returns us to tried and true Keaton formula: the lone man being chased by a thundering herd, in this case, of angry women in full wedding apparel, fed up at being duped by a newspaper ad submitted by Buster's colleague unbeknownst to Buster. The chase has satisfying moments, including Buster dodging large bolders. Although worth seeing, the reliance on the single absurd premise makes this film feel more like a dragged out short movie than a genuine feature. The result is a slightly less satisfying encounter with Keaton's genius.
