I think that anyone who believes this movie to be "hilarious" or Hudson's performance "overrated" and "over-the-top" in her singing just doesn't like musicals.  Or perhaps doesn't like an all black cast (I am not black) or is too young to understand the 60's world of music and payola and backstabbing.  

While touted to be similar to the experiences suffered by The Supremes with Diana Ross as its lead singer, it is close in some aspects and totally far away in others.  The key words here are "loosely based" on the story of the Supremes.  Why people, including Ross herself don't get that is beyond me!

Over the top? If anyone saw the original play with Jennifer Holliday (I did see it) then you don't know the meaning of over the top.  That character was supposed to be that way and Hudson did a wonderful job of that.  Her performance overrated?  Hogwash!  She deserved all the accolades she received as a novice actress. Murphy did one of his best acting jobs ever! Beyonce's performance was good but not great.  This was in part because her character while prominent was not the focus of the movie nor was it of the play. This was Beyonce's best acting performance thus far though she still needs some work and the "right" role.  This was not the right role for her in my opinion.  Hudson's character is the main and central character which puzzles me for the "supporting actress" win.  Though as lead actress she probably would have lost.

You people out there, don't take my word for this movie's greatness and take on a true part of history even if it was "white-washed," no pun intended.  Or don't think its a bad movie like some other critics here.  YOU MUST JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.  I hope and think  that you won't be disappointed. There are some more than subtle references to The Supremes and Diana Ross especially in some of the costumes, Beyonce's images and album covers (CD covers for you youngsters)BUT only die hard fans of the Supremes and people who were there at that time would know that.  ENJOY
