I am not a horror movie fan, in fact there are very few horror movies that have truly scared me, but this one indeed made me literally crap myself. I caught this movie during the midnight hours on IFC 2 years ago, and luckily the movie was just starting, so I got to see it from beginning to end. This movie is basically about a man named Frank Zito (Joe Spinell) who's a psychotic serial killer who seeks pleasure by killing women, because he feels he's getting back at his abusive mother who was also a prostitute. After her death Frank feels alone, but cannot forget the mistreatment he received from her all those years. 

Frank lives in a tiny apartment in New York City, in which he keeps several mannequins. He uses these mannequins by putting his victim's bloody scalps, on it's heads. When he spots a woman named Anna (Caroline Munro), a photographer in the park taking pictures he gains a sudden interest in her, but not the type of interest in which he wants to murder her, but kind of a romantic interest. He takes her out to dinner and buys her gifts, but will he change his mind about her, and make her become another one of his victims? 

Some of the scenes in this film are so incredibly gut-wrenching, especially the scene when he chases a nurse into a subway station, and she hides in a bathroom stall. I felt my heart pounding the whole entire time. The effects were realistic (Nice Job Tom Savini!), they don't come close to todays, even though the movie was released in 1980.  Joe Spinell plays this part so well that you might think he was for real, and not only that, but he physically looked the part too . The scenes where he's in his apartment talking to his mannequins are some of the most creepiest scenes I have ever seen in a movie. I believe that this film is one of the most realistic horror films out there, because we get to see the results of how an alone, mistreated child might turn out. This isn't one of those lame zombie movies, it's the real deal. If you like horror, and a lot of gore, and you haven't seen this then I recommend you watching this.  
