One only needs to watch Ball of Fire to realize the depth of Barbara Stanwyck's incredible talent.  I'd match her up against ANY ACTRESS of her era or any other era!!  Here is a woman who can rip your heart out...even when she plays unlikeable characters because she always lets you see multi-dimensions of her characters.  Sugarpuss O'Shea is a perfect example of a bad girl with a soft heart who succumbs to the love a naive, good-looking gentleman.  But she also shows her love to the other professors.  1941 was Stanwyck's greatest Movie Year.....she made "Meet John DOe" and "The Lady Eve" in this year as well and she is excellent in all of them.  Stanwyck is the ONLY ACTRESS I CAN THINK OF who CAN DO ANYTHING!!  From drama to comedy, to musicals and of course westerns!!  While Stanwyck's singing is not on a par with her other talents (her singing was dubbed in Ball of Fire) she can still do a musical song and dance as is evidenced in her 1937 film (THIS IS MY AFFAIR where she plays a vaudeville entertainer).  Bette Davis could never play comedy and was too mannered with her rapid fire clipped speech and overacting.  SHe couldn't sing or dance (as Barbara did in Ball of FIre, Lady of Burlesque, This is My Affair and Banjo on My Knee).  Katharine Hepburn was a good actress but very unnerving also with her mannerisms, high patrician attitude and SHE COULD NEVER PLAY A PART IN A MUSICAL.  SHE COULDN'T SING).  Joan Crawford was a good actress in good movies but very few of her movies are good and she couldn't sing.  Doris Day was brilliant in comedy, musicals and drama but she would never be believable as a villainess or a heavy.  The same with Judy Garland.  Rare is the talent who could do it all.  I dare anyone to disagree with me that Stanwyck was the ONE who could do it all....Drama, Comedy, Westerns, Musicals!! Heroine or villainess! Stanwyck's work is always FIRST CLASS even when applied to material that is not.   She was simply the greatest and I'm sorry this review has turned into a tribute to Stanwyck but she should have won the Oscar in 1941 for Ball of Fire when she proved that she was the greatest actress in that wonderful era of actresses!!  The movie, Ball of Fire is great fun!!  From beginning to end Stanwyck and Cooper are unbeatable!!!  And the other professors are hilarious to watch as well!!  There is also a marvelous musical score and the production values are top notch! 
