Although many reviewers didn't like the second part of the "Hills", I still wouldn't call it "one of the worst sequels ever" or "the worst Wes Craven film". Certainly this is not a masterpiece, even in the framework of horror genre, but I don't see why it should be worse than any other slasher flick. When I was watching it, I came to a conclusion early Wes Craven had been imitating other directors rather often. I'm not saying he was not original at all - eventually he shot "A Nightmare on Elm Street" in 1984. But "The Hills Have Eyes" were reminiscent of "Texas Chainsaw Massacre", and in the beginning of 80s, when slasher era started, I guess Craven decided to make something in the same manner. Maybe the reason was Craven's long-time buddy Sean Cunningham created "Friday the 13th" in 1980, and Wes was envious? :) Anyway the second part of "The Hills Have Eyes" turned out to be a pure slasher like many others at that time. And it obviously wasn't the worst and in many ways was like above mentioned "Friday the 13th": the score was written by Harry Manfredini, known to every "Friday" fan, and the music in "Hills 2" is just like in early "Fridays". The body count increased comparing to the first part and approached a regular slasher movie. Kevin Blair who had a leading male part here, would star in "Friday the 13th part VII" a couple of years later along with Kane Hodder, who did stunts for "The Hills Have Eyes 2" and in "Friday" would play you know whom. 
Of course here we can see some stupidities as in other slasher movies (like characters wandering in night all alone instead of sticking together, all the big strong guys get killed, and a handicapped girl survives - I'm not even considering it as a spoiler for it is obvious from the very beginning, especially if you've seen a couple of horror films in your life), but is that a problem for a true horror fan? We've learned not to take this trivia into account. 
So I think "The Hills Have Eyes 2" managed on many levels, and it would be interesting to have it in your collection, if you have the first one. For they are two totally different films talking about the subgenres of horror. 
