AFI finally release a live DVD, and as a portrayal of the band as it stands now, it is very impressive. It does lack older, more hardcore punk tracks, but that is to be expected as the band grows and matures into the  band it is now. Each album progresses towards more epic scales, and songs balance beauty with power. "I Heard a Voice" captures this on film, and the fan gets to witness AFI at their most grandiose. Watching vocalist Davey Havok sing "God Called in Sick Today" while being held up by the audience is amazing to watch and gives this reviewer chills everytime. The masterful command of theatrics from each member, especially Havok, creates a powerful feeling unable to fully describe but easy to appreciate. The setlist itself is perfectly put together, with the only gripe being the exclusion of "Kiss and Control." The rest of the songs display all facets of AFI, from the fast paced "Dancing Through Sunday",(which includes a nicely executed guitar solo by guitarist Jade Puget) "Kill Caustic", "Death of Seasons", "Totalimmortal" and "A Single Second", (the last of which features a guest appearance by Nick 13 of Tiger Army) to the slower paced "This Time Imperfect" and "Endlessly, She Said" as well as all of their recent singles, and a few more cuts from their latest releases "Decemberunderground" and "Sing the Sorrow". Extras are geared towards the fans, with Despair Faction interviews and the inclusion of videos from their massive scavenger hunt prior to the Decemberunderground release, as well as a poster. 

Each band member has their moments to shine, and are all very capable and talented muscians. Bassist Hunter Burgan and drummer Adam Carson lay down a solid foundation as well as background vocals, as Puget layers his unique guitar sound and obvious mastery, in this genre, over the instrument. This is all built up to allow Havok to use his unique vocal approach to wander in between melodies and notes, mixing powerful singing with a fantastic screaming voice, to create beautiful atmospheres of sound that can crash down on you just as easily as it hypnotizes you.

The quality of the sound production as well as the video edits are fantastic. Unlike other live DVD's, where the concert is edited to the point of a music video, "I Heard a Voice" has just the right amount to not make you forget you are watching a live dvd, but also add to the overall effect of the performance. The sound is very clear, and the sound levels are perfectly set to allow each member to cut through the mix. 

This is overall a very stellar production, and fans who have already embraced the new direction of the band, as well as new fans and casual fans, should find the dvd to be quite entertaining and a very worthwhile buy
