The Hand of Fear is not top-notch, all-time classic Who. Even producer Philip Hinchcliffe doesn't like it very much. The only reason it was likely selected for DVD release over such classics as The Seeds of Doom or Terror of the Autons is probably because it's Sarah Jane's farewell story. Many stories during the Hinchcliffe/Holmes years of Who, sometimes referred to as the "golden age" of Doctor Who, sometimes referred as the "gothic horror period," were based on movies. The Seeds of Doom was based on The Day of the Triffids. Horror of Fang Rock was based on And Then There Were None. If not based on an actual film, many were "inspired" in general by the look and feel of the Hammer horror films. The Hand of Fear was inspired by The Hands of Dr. Orlac, the old horror film about the disembodied hand of a killer. The story starts out great, beginning with a fantastic in-joke. Rock quarries were VERY frequently used in the program as they were easily accessible and somewhat looked like alien planets. Here the Doctor and Sarah land in a rock quarry on earth, and Sarah thinks they're on an alien planet! After an accident with a detonation, Sarah finds Eldrad's hand, and starts saying she/he/it must live a lot. "Eldrad must! live" (high note on "must"). She takes the hand to a nuclear power plant where it can start absorbing energy and regenerating. The story thus far is excellent, and Sarah Jane, possessed by Eldrad, is genuinely creepy, though why she's dressed as Andy Pandy I'll never know. Extremely effective is the scene were the power plant worker disappears with the hand into the core. Also extremely effective is Eldrad eerily searing through the metal door of the power plant's core, and then slowly emerging. The show goes downhill quick once Eldrad, Doctor and co. head to Eldrad's planet. Producer Hinchcliffe said this was a bad shift and that it lacked a certain punch. I agree. For some reason, once Eldrad is back on its home planet the story loses all its edge. Furthermore, Sarah's farewell seems entirely forced. The Hand of Fear, overall, is still good stuff though, and is well worth owning. It is one of the few episodes that contains the cool version of the Tardis interior. (Why they didn't stick with the awesome Jules Verne-ish interior I have no idea!)
