I would argue that since we really haven't evolved all that far since our primate days human males still have loads of aggression and animalistic behavior they need to get out. And despite the best efforts from civilization in general to neuter them that aggression still has to go someplace. In Mary Harron's "American Psycho" it comes out in all the wrong places. The film is a character study of one Patrick Bateman (Christian Bale), a Wall Street yuppie by day and an ax murderer by night. Patrick is a man who has been forced to the edge because of the fakeness that surrounds him. It's not just the suits and the empty conversations either. It is the peeing contests over who has the best haircut or apartment or business card. He tries to talk about his problems, he really does, but nobody listens to him because nobody listens period. To their ears "Murders and Executions" is interchangeable with "Mergers and Acquisitions." 

The film is a big punch in the face to the egotistical businessmen of the 1980's. This particular Gordon Gekko is overdone and overacted by Christian Bale in a great performance. He is robotic, phony, arrogant and absurd. He is the kind of guy who will have a 3 some with prostitutes just so that he can admire himself in the mirror doing so (all the while flexing his biceps). More than anything he is militantly materialistic. He is Dexter mixed with Jim Profit, only he likes to style and profile while taking an ax to a co-workers head. The whole point, which is made clear in the final scene, is that while these people may truly believe that only the glossy veneer matters it is really the inside that counts. Just because these people make enough cash to swim in, Scrooge McDuck style, doesn't mean that their behavior is excusable. Harron paints the modern businessman as an American Psycho, and it is all too fitting. To make it in the business world your conscious and your soul must be turned off, you must be turned into Patrick Bateman.

The film is a great success. As a horror movie villain Patrick has one of the most compelling backstories ever. Every scene has great energy to it and even though Bale looks a little out of place his acting is so good you can't stop watching him. There is something of a conflict presented when Willem Dafoe shows up to play a detective on the case of one of Patrick's murders. That storyline is interesting while it lasts, but it is never quite wrapped up. I would also admit that after awhile I got a little sick of swimming in these debaucherous waters. He may never tire of having it dirty and bloody but I eventually did. The character is endlessly fascinating (what is up with his love of cheesy 80's music?) and the scene where he kills Paul Allen will leave you stunned and hypnotized. The male need for aggression isn't going anyplace and we need to find a good way to channel it. . .otherwise we are going to have a lot more Patrick Bateman's and Iraq Wars on our hands. ***3/
