First let me start off by saying this. Ken Sushi Volume 1 is unquestionably the BEST video guide for making sushi. I have had a chance to see the other guides, and quite frankly they just don't cut it. Poor camera work, and even worse instruction should not be found in a sushi instructional video (or any culinary instructional video for that matter). Also, being taught by a sushi enthusiast rather than a professional sushi chef is not going to send a very good message to people who are really serious about learning how to make sushi properly (people want to learn from someone experienced, not enthusiastic).

Finally we have a video that is taught by a professional in the sushi scene, and he really takes the time to lay out all the techniques he's developed over the years, so that with a little practice (and the benefit of not having to take the time Ken did to trial and error his methods of perfect sushi creation) I was actually able to make some really great sushi.

The camera work is GREAT! No shakes or stutters, I didn't find myself distracted by the nuances of poor production quality. Truthfully this video is done so well, you will just find yourself immersed in what Ken is teaching (it plays a LOT like a chef Martin Yan instructional video).

Also it seems a lot of time was taken in pre production to really focus the instruction to a degree that it is thorough enough for someone familiar with sushi creation, yet developed enough so that someone completely new to the sushi experience can actually have a fair shot to making a wholesome, delicious dish.

If you take the time to watch the video a few times, and practice along with it. You WILL make sushi good enough to eat, and present to your friends, family (just utterly show off).

I'm just really glad I can finally say there is now a sushi instructional video that I feel was worth every penny of my purchase. If you want to really learn how to make sushi well, then Ken Sushi Volume 1 will be your number one resource. The only negative thing I have to say is where the heck is volume two????
