Collateral Damage is the great and partially real action film in which  Arnold Schwarzenger plays a fireman hell bent on getting his hands on the Terrorist who killed his wife and kid and many other citizens near a shopping mall. 

With the attacks on Sept 11 , movies have tried to cash in but Collateral Damage is different. Arnold even dedicated the movie to firefighters everywhere in an interview  with Byron Allen. 


The movie is brilliant in showing what only what the motivation behind terrorist attacks , but the depiction of slow agencies like fbi to counter these terrorist attacks. 

Basically, the FBI and CIA tell Gorden Brewer(Arnold Schwarzennger) that they are working to bring down the terrorist who killed his family, when in fact they  have no good leads on the suspect. 

Rather, than sitting on his butt, and waiting for the FBI to do something, Gordon takes the law into his own hands and seeks to get justice for his family  by going into Columbia and getting ''The Wolf''(Cliff Curtis) as the terrorist is called. 

There is a great scene in which Gordon goes crazy and literally beats the hell out of a cold-blooded radio news reporter who says that the victims are pure garbage by saying their ''collateral damage''. The radio reporter explains the reasons behind terrorist attacks but shows no feeling for victims. I loved this scene, because this reporter clearly has no remorse for the dead. He probably has no family of his own, and doesn't know the meaning of life, except to cover his own. 

Now you might say to yourself what's the difference between Arnold's character (who is going for justice) and the terrorist well here is the big difference from  Arnold himself: ''The difference between me and you is that I am only going to kill you''. 

Unbelievable action and twists at the end, that you're literally be on the edge of youre seat, and just when you think the movie is over.... it's  not !!! 

Director Andrew Davis not only gives a fact type based movie based on Columbia, but also a factual based type movie that deals with Terrorism and the lessons that we must learn to see that things like this don't happen again. 
In fact, most people will remember the horrible case of Wall Street Reporter , Daniel Pearl, who was executed after the U.S. failed to meet the demands of the Middle East terrorist holding. 

The U.S. should have gone after these terrorists like the way Arnold does in this movie. but then the U.S. does not have a great track record when it comes to nailing terrorist even going back to the 1970's the U.S. supported and backed up
madmen like General Pinochet in Chile and dictator Samoza in Nicaragua. Both of them killed hundreds of people with U.S. backing and funding.

Still though ''Collateral Damage'' is a great action film that you must see.
